ID	Text
1	The course will examine the theoretical and ideological debates related to power, state, civil society, nationalism, democratization, and globalization. Students will also examine social identities like class, race, gender, sexuality, and religion and their intersection with various political institutions.
2	The study of social and cultural change: the causes, pro- cesses, theories, and consequences. The case study approach will be used.
3	A course covering the fundamentals of computer hardware.  Topics include data representation using various number representations, Boolean algebra and logic, digital logic devices, combinational and sequential circuits, logic units and simple processor design including registers, memory, addressing and processing of low-level instructions.
4	This course examines representative novels from Alarcon to Galdos.  Works chosen demonstrate the important literary currents of the past century.
5	This course focuses on Don Quijote and its impact in Early Modern Spain's historical development and literary culture. Excerpts of Renaissance works that were influential to the creation of Don Quijote will also be studied along with transnational adaptations: Spanish and Latin American literary production, films, comics, and other artistic material that will contribute to a deeper understanding of this classical novel and its legacy on the contemporary world. Lectures, readings and class discussions are in Spanish.
6	Collecting accurate and representative air, water, and soil field samples and analyzing those samples using modern instrumentation and techniques is an important component of may environmental investigations.  In this course, students learn the theory of and techniques for field data collection, laboratory analysis, and interpretation of air, water, and soil samples for environmental toxics. Topics include active (grab) and passive sampling and laboratory analysis of environmental contaminants using a variety of analytic techniques.  Special attention will be paid to the analysis of toxics that are (1) directly produced by and/or impact students and their community and (2) contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), defined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as those where the, risk to human health and the environment associated with their presence, frequency of occurrence, or source may not be known. 
7	This course is a chronological study of human development spanning conception to death from the perspective of developmental psychology. Students in this class will examine matters related to physical, cognitive and socioemotional maturation at each stage of the lifespan and how these matters can enrich, delay or otherwise alter developmental progression. Emphasis will be placed on theoretical principles, methods of study and practical implications of developmental research, particularly how these principles and methods can be applied to health professions.
8	This course provides content on traditional and alternative theories of human growth and development and applies these to human behavior within the context of the social environment.  Building on the assessment framework presented in HBSE I, students learn to assess how gender, age, race, color, ethnicity, culture, social class, sexual orientation socioeconomic status and disability play a role in shaping individual life experience with human systems of various size. The individual's ability to achieve optimal health and well-being throughout the life course is also examined. Emphasis is placed on how to apply course content to client/consumer situations. 
9	Siena's flagship choral ensemble, Chamber Singers is an auditioned choir of 12-16 voices. Focus is on developing technique through reading, discussion, and performance of major choral literature. A rigorous process includes topics in music literacy and theory, history and performance practice.
10	A study of several major Shakespearean plays.  The works will be analyzed against the background of Shakespeare's life and times.
11	The course contains the principal leadership instruction of the Basic Course. The use of practical exercises is emphasized, as students are increasingly required to apply communications and leadership concepts.  The focus continues to build on developing knowledge of the leadership attributes and core leader competencies through the understanding of Army rank, structure, and duties as well as broadening knowledge of land navigation and infantry squad tactics. Case studies will provide a tangible context for learning and understanding the Soldier's Creed and Warrior Ethos. Upon completion of this semester, students should be well grounded in the fundamental principles of leaderhip, and be prepared to intensify the practical application of their studies during the Advanced Course.
12	This course, taught in English, includes the study of selected subtitled films, which will be utilized as a visual and aural source to learn about social justice issues in the Spanish-speaking world.  Students will learn about the history, politics, and social issues of Spanish speaking populations in Latin America, Spain and the United States. The geographical emphasis will shift among the various Spanish-speaking regions of the world.  Possible broad themes include memory, oppression, self-discovery, immigration, exile, identity, assimilation, women's rights, dictatorship, GLBTQ issues, and indigenous rights.  With its roots in the ideals of the Franciscan tradition, this course demonstrates how to critically analyze social justice issues in cultural settings depicted in films from the Spanish-speaking world from a variety of perspectives.
13	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of Rome from its foundation to the fall of the empire.
14	A critical analysis of the several approaches to the study of behavior, including the comparative method. Examples will be drawn from representative levels of human and animal behavior. Students will participate in a project or term paper
15	A study of art in the United States from the seventeenth to the twentieth century considering both the European influence and American styles. Small group field trips to local/regional historic houses and museums are required.
16	A basic introduction to reporting and writing the news for broadcast, both radio and television.  Students learn what constitutes news, how to develop news stories and the basic audio and video elements required in broadcast journalism.  Students will explore legal and ethical issues in broadcast journalism and major developments in the broadcast journalism field.
17	A study of the potential economic loss from personal, property and liability risks to which all individuals and organizations are exposed. The methods by which these risks are identified and evaluated will be explored, together with methods for retaining and transferring these risks.
18	A study of Spanish literature from the Generation of '98 to the contemporary period. 
19	An historical examination of the Spanish borderland region of the United States between 1513 and 1821 with concluding remarks regarding the period of Mexican authority over Texas and the Southwest between 1821-1848. Focus will include the exploration and occupation of the region as well as social, political, economic, and military developments.
20	Public finance focuses upon the rationale and impact of the government's collection of revenue and its expenditures. Topics to be covered include the budget system, principles of taxation, tax incidence, the principles of expenditures, the impact of spending on private behavior, as well as the ability of the process to produce appropriate decisions.
21	This course deals with the development and implementation of organization strategy. It focuses on the perspectives, analytical techniques, and capabilities utilized by managers to improve an organization's probability of attaining sustainable competitive advantage and success in the long term. It is considered a capstone course, which implies that students will be asked to integrate much of what they have learned in other courses into the analytical and decision-making processes. In this course, students will be expected to integrate knowledge and skills from courses in the business core, work effectively in teams, demonstrate leadership skill, communicate effectively, engage in the analysis of complex business situations, and make enlightened decisions based upon reasoned judgments. This is a multidisciplinary course, emphasizing the development of strategies that integrate accounting, financial, economic marketing, and management considerations. The course will be taught by professors from a variety of disciplines, but always with an emphasis on multi-disciplinary integration.
22	A survey of the development of the English language from its origins as an indo-European dialect to modern British and American English.  The course will also examine regional, ethnic, and national varieties of English as well as current social and political issues regarding contemporary English.
23	This course is intended to serve as an introduction to the study of exceptional children. Students in the course will become familiar with the broad range of exceptionalities from giftedness to intellectual disabilities. While the main focus will be education of the exceptional person, emphasis will also be placed upon social and legal considerations. The course is recommended for those who are interested in regular classroom teaching as well as special education and school psychology or social work. A twenty-hour field experience working with children who have special needs is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student).
24	Critical analysis of the social construction of gender and its intersections with other relations of power, such as race, class, and sexuality. Examining issues of gender and power in a transnational context.
25	This course covers emerging database technology from the standpoint of users, implementers, and administrators. The main topics are typicaly NoSQL databases, data mining, and object databases, all with hands-on opportunities.  Additional topics normally include several of the following: cloud databases, security, privacy, spatial databases, temporal data, XML and databases, crowd sourced databases, distributed databases, main memory databases and other topics as indicated by student interest and technological trends.
26	This course is designed for students who are pursuing a career in one of the medical fields.  In this course students will learn the following: basic Spanish grammar and vocabulary applicable to a broad range of medical situations; to ask basic medical questions in Spanish and to compile a complaint history; the medical terminology of body parts and systems of the body in Spanish; appropriate protocols and cultural norms that apply when treating people from a variety of Spanish- speaking countries.
27	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Spanish-speaking country.  Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
28	Introduction to the fundamental concepts of mathematical analysis. A two-term course that studies the real number systems, limits, sequences, series, convergence, uniform convergence, functions of one variable, continuity differ- entiability, Riemann integration, functions of several variables, line, surface, and volume integrals.
29	A study of the vertebrates with emphasis on life cycles, adaptations, ecology, behavior, and taxonomic relationships. Includes studies of local species in their natural habitats, laboratory exercises, and individual projects or research papers. At least one weekend field trip is scheduled.
30	Behavioral economics uses insight from psychology and economics to investigate the limits of human rationality. Many economic models assume that individuals can quickly and easily assess options and will select the one that satisfies their self-interest. But experimental results and everyday experience show that this is not always the case. Behavioral economics is an attempt to understand how individuals actually act in real life, focused on two main questions. The first is What motivates individuals? - namely, is it really self-interest? The second question is How do individuals actually make decisions? - we will see that it is very often not the rational, utility maximizing models of neoclassical microeconomic. Popular press books and recent scholarly articles will be used to assess the current understanding of human decision-making behavior.
31	This course examines the role of minorities in the American political system using an inclusive concept of minority groups, covering race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, and religion. It covers the theoretical foundations of minority civil rights in democracies, explores the historical development of politics and policies relevant to minority groups, and analyzes the nature of minority politics in contemporary American society
32	This course is an introduction to the study of public opinion. The course explores the origins of public opinion (political socialization; socio-demographic, personality, and political influences; and the mass media). The course will also cover public opinion polls and survey research techniques. Finally, the course will study the impact of public opinion on policy makers and public policy.
33	This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of three semesters of college Arabic.
34	A study of ecological processes in marine environments of the tropics. Lectures will emphasize the application of basic ecological principles to life in the ocean, then focus on characteristics of marine habitats in the tropics and of the groups of organisms that occur there.  The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of intensive field work at a tropical marine laboratory.
35	An introductory course concentrating on how new venture opportunities are identified and assessed.  Special attention is given to exploring the unique role of entrepreneurship and innovation in society.  Course content focuses both on understanding the historical, social, and ethical context of entrepreneurship and in seeking, assessing and developing new venture opportunities.  Students will learn alternative approaches to finding new venture opportunities and assessing the viability of those opportunities.
36	The study of crimes, e.g. murder, manslaughter, conspiracy, accomplice liability, burglary, theft. The case law approach is used.
37	An introduction to the study of functions of a complex variable. Topics will include complex numbers, sequences, analytic functions, Cauchy-Riemann equations, complex integration, Laurent and Taylor Series, residue theorem, and conformal mapping.
38	To increase proficiency in speaking Arabic and deepening the understanding of cultural realities. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of four semesters of college Arabic.
39	An introduction to the object-oriented design paradigm with an emphasis on problem solving, algorithm development, and implementation of algorithms as computer programs in an object-oriented language.  Other topics will include data representation, programming style, program testing and analysis of algorithms.
40	This course is an introduction to the mathematical and algorithmic principles of computer graphics as well as graphical applications programming.  Topics covered include two and three-dimensional transformations, three-dimensional viewing, shading models, curves and surfaces, ray tracing, texture mapping, and algorithmic issues.  In the laboratory these topics will be explored using graphics software tools and through programming using graphics libraries. 
41	An introduction to the chemistry of carbon compounds, including the study of bonding, structure, nomenclature, physical and spectrosopic properties, methods of preparation and reactivity of alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, alkyl halides, and alcohols. Separation and purification techniques are stressed in the laboratory and reaction products are analyzed by spectroscopic and chromatographic methods, including GC, HPLC, FTIR, and FT-NMR.
42	This course serves as an introduction to the basic principles of Astronomy. The course is taught at a non-technical level, and is intended both for non- science majors. Topics include the history of Astronomy, the Solar System, stars, galaxies, the structure and evolution of the Universe, and the origin and evolution of life. Emphasis is placed on the quantitative and qualitative description of astronomical objects, the methods of scientific deduction, and the implications of astronomical knowledge. Opportunities for field and laboratory work will be provided.
43	An introduction to religion through an historical examination of western religious communities, the course focuses on Judaism, Christianity, and Islam as they have developed in a variety of forms while retaining certain central traditions.
44	This course, taught in English, provides an overview of women's writing and cultural expression from Latin America through novels, short stories, poetry, film and music. Historical and contextual background of the authors and their countries of origin are interwoven into course material.  This course examines women's search for a voice in Latin America.
45	An examination of how the natural environment is affected by the economic activities of society, and the physical and biological limitations imposed on the economy by the natural environment. Particular areas examined include the use of non-renewable natural resources, market failures, economic methods for analyzing pollution, cost/benefit analysis, the impact of population growth, and the values implicit in free market economies toward the natural environment.
46	An intermediate level treatment of the theories of consumer behavior and demand, production and cost, the firm and market organization, and factor markets. Microeconomic topics might include price control, pollution, efficiency, equity, taxes, subsidies, and government regulation.
47	This course covers the principles of anatomy, physiology and genetics as applied to human health and disease. Content is focused on four systems: genetics and development, cardiovascular system, neuro-muscular system and digestive system and nutrition. Through study of clinical applications students will understand 1) the biological basis of human diseases, 2) the physiological consequences of disease progression, including treatments and prevention and 3) how to access and use medical and scientific information to investigate questions in human biology. Demonstrations, experiments and readings will support these topics and allow exploration of ethical and other issues relevant to human biology. In addition, all students will take part in a long- term independent investigation of a case study in human health.
48	This course will use peer evaluations and the traditional writing workshop to foster student skills in writing poetry. Students are required to distribute poems they have written to the class for critique and group evaluation.  Poetic theory and technique will be examined, and the works of contemporary poets will be studied.  Students will be introduced to the art of writing contemporary poetry.
49	In this studio art course, students will be introduced to new art forms such as assemblage sculpture, sound art, action art, experimental video and installation art. In addition to studying the history and theory behind new art forms, students will produce original pieces in these new media and present them to the class for discussion. No experience in art or in any of the technical aspects of these art forms is necessary. The course goal is to increase awareness and understanding of contemporary art, and to expand one's sense of aesthetics.
50	American Renaissance Literature examines the emergence of the American narrative, the American character, and the de- velopment of the Transcendentalist and Romantic literary movements.  Close attention will also be paid to ab- olitionist writing, slave narrative, and the establishment of the American woman writer against the background of the expanding nation.  Students may study such authors as Irving Cooper, Jacobs, Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Poe, Fuller, Fern, Stowe, Douglas, Melville, Sedgwick, Whitman, or Kirkland.
51	The structural, biochemical, and cellular strategies that plants use to grow and develop will be explored. Topics will include photosynthesis and metabolism, control of water uptake, vascular systems, hormone signaling, environmental perception (light, gravity, day length, etc), and responses to environmental stress. Where possible, we will compare and contrast physiological and cellular processes in plants with equivalent ones found in animals. The laboratory corresponds closely with lecture, provides hands-on training in many modern physiological and cellular techniques, and includes a multi-week independent study project. There is typically a field trip to the New York Botanical Garden at the end of the semester.
52	A study of population trends in the United States and across the world. The course will be organized around three basic variables: fertility, mortality, and migration.
53	This course considers the evolution of British literature in the early to mid-20th century in the wake of a collapsing Empire and two World Wars.  The innovative, experimental modes of expression of Modernism, disillusionment with Vic- torian values, changing attitudes toward gender and sex- uality and the redefinition of British identity will be ex- plored through such writers as Conrad, Lawrence, Woolf, Mansfield, West, Ford, and Maugham.
54	Development of reading and speaking skills will be emphasized. Grammar and syntax will be reviewed and new material introduced. Emphasis will be placed on increasing both passive and active vocabulary using a wide range of sources including textbooks, literary and journalistic sources, and class discussion.
55	A study of the emergence of the regional state system, deep economic transformation, and wrenching social and cultural changes since 1800.  Particular attention is given to the reasons for conflict and war.
56	A survey of the origins of the United States from early Colonial foundations to the establishment of the national government with emphasis upon the political maturation of the American colonists.
57	A course consisting of the physiological and neurological bases for behavior, including the study of the nervous system, endocrine system, sensation and perception, the motor system, and the physiological basis for motivation.
58	The significant impact of society's energy needs on the environment will be examined. The course will cover our society's different sources of energy (fossil fuel, nuclear, hydropower, solar, etc), discussing how each is obtained, and giving their advantages and limitations. The use of energy in the future will also be explored, as some present sources run out and new ones become practical. The basis of climate will be developed, and students will learn how changes to Earth's atmosphere and oceans affect human civilations and natural ecosystems. Each week one or more group or demonstration experiments will be performed, to illustrate concepts.
59	A study of selected masterpieces of German, Austrian, and Swiss Literature including novels, short stories, drama, and poetry, read in English translation.
60	Lecture and laboratory covering topics in thermodynamics, equilibrium, acids and bases, chemical kinetics, and electrochemistry. Laboratory focuses on chemical analysis by traditional and modern techniques with emphasis on instrumental methods as well as digital data acquisition and analysis.
61	The study of formal organizations in a comparative framework. the course will examine the social causes of the development of formal organizations, analyze the internal structure of some types of formal organizations such as corporations, government agencies, hospitals, and universities, and look at the impact of that structure on the achievement of individual, organizational, and societal goals.
62	An introductory level studio course covering the practice, history, and theory of painting. The use of the brush, color theory, and the depiction of space will be explored through the observational study of a variety of subjects. Students will inquire into the purpose of painting and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media.  Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media.
63	A study of selected masterworks of French literature from its medieval beginnings through the twentieth century, including novels, short stories, drama and poetry, read in English translation. No knowledge of French language is required.
64	The purpose of the course is to analyze the Western Tradition as it evolved from 1500 to 1900; to understand and appreciate non-Western civilizations and their encounters with the West; and to examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless.
65	This course is the first part of a two course research methods sequence. It provides an overview of the political science discipline, its evolution, and its subfields. Students are introduced to the systematic, empirical approach to the study of politics, and are alerted to the issues that may arise when doing social science research. In this course students are also introduced to various qualitative approaches to data collection and analysis.
66	A survey of the history of Latin America from 1492 to independence in the 1820s.
67	Examples of mathematical modeling will be applied in the context of biological problems drawn from ecology, evolution, epidemiology, public health, economics, biochemical reactions, and medicine.  Analysis techniques will draw from differential equations, probability, optimization, and game theory, with the overarching theme of model development and implementation, analysis and result interpretation.
68	This course addresses the pertinent management issues of the of the trillion dollar nonprofit sector and explores the theory and practice of effective management of nonprofit organizations, with an emphasis on practical application. In particular, the course will explore the role of nonprofit organizations in a society and the key theories, issues, debates, and unique challenges facing managers and leaders in the nonprofit sector. 
69	The course is designed to prepare and expose students to public policy making in New York State and allow them to participate in public policy formulation and execution at the state , substate and not-for-profit level. Students will serve as Public Service Interns 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilites as determined by the agency supervisor in consultation with the faculty director. Students will be graded based upon the joint evaluation of agency supervisor and internship professor.
70	A study of Hinduism in its specific cultural and historical settings, paying considerable attention to diverse Hindu texts and practices from the east and the west. Explores Hindu iconographies, narratives, spaces and ways of worship.  Introduces interpretive strategies from comparative, feminist, social, and historical frameworks.
71	This course cover the synthesis, characterization and physical properties of organic compounds. Multistep synthesis of complex targets of current interest will be discussed, including aspects of chemo-, regio- and stereoselectivity. The course will also cover the char- acterization of organic molecules including NMR, mass spectroscopy, chromatography, thermal analysis and other spectroscopic and physical methods. In the laboratory portion of the course students will synthesize and characterize organic compounds and materials.
72	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in Russia. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio- economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
73	This course focuses on knowledge, skills, values and ethics competencies in social work practice with treatment and task groups. Cultural competence is emphasized in working with group members of diverse backgrounds as well as strategies for the promotion of social justice through groups.
74	This course is an introduction to the study of group inter- action through theoretical perspectives and current research. The study of group dynamics include topics such as group formation and socialization, communication, how power is wielded in groups, the beneficial and detrimental effects of groups on performance and decision-making, conformity in groups, intergroup relationships, and conflict. Classes will be structured so that students have opportunities to monitor their own group processes as they study theory and research. 
75	This course explores special topics in biochemistry including a close examination of biochemical reaction mechanisms and enzyme kinetics, and readings from the current biochemical literature.
76	The course examines the history, cultural, political, economic forces which inform the politics of China and its relations with Japan, Taiwan, North and South Korea and the rest of the world. The course will examine such issues such as economic development, international trade, human rights, political organization, environment, and national security which impact these countries' domestic and foreign policies.
77	In this studio are course, students will build a series of short videos prompted by topics and genres relating to the history and evolution of video art and experimental film. Students will have access to a range of digital cameras and learn how to edit in Adobe Premiere Pro. The class will also learn Dragonframe to create a collaborative stop-motion video. The course goal is to become familiar with the history, theory, and aesthetics of this new art medium, and to gain experience in making, critiquing, and exhibiting one's own original videos. No experience in art, video, or sound production is necessary.
78	An introduction to the accounting principles and practices of government and not-for-profit organizations. The course considers fund accounting principles and the unique financial reporting problems important to entities operating within the non-profit area: state and local government, colleges and universities, hospitals, health and welfare agencies, churches and other organizations.
79	Lecture and laboratory address the application and theory of various analytical methods including gravimetric, electro- chemical, and spectrophotometric analysis, chromatography and statistical treatment of data and error analysis.
80	This course introduces students to the political science study of political advertising and marketing, with additional focus on preparing students to work in the field of campaign politics. Emphases include the influence and pervasiveness of negative advertising, targeted advertising, online advertising, and the crafting of political messages for maximal influence.
81	A survey of the factors and forces that made Modern French Civilization.
82	A study of the region from the rise of Islam to the beginnings of modernization, with emphasis on the interplay of politics, religion, economy, and culture between 600 and 1800.
83	This class, taught in English, will focus on Medieval and Early Modern Spanish poetry, prose and drama.  A series of works that are considered canonical masterpieces will be analyzed within the political, social, religious and historical context of the Iberian Peninsula between the years of 1100 and 1650.  Selected texts from authors like Juan Ruiz, Quevedo, Gongora, Cervantes and Lope de Vega, among others, will be read in English translation.
84	This course examines how firms make effective financial management decisions in an uncertain, multinational environment.  Students will learn how to determine financing needs, evaluate financing alternatives and assess the impact of financing decisions on the cost of capital.  Students will apply a consistent valuation methodology to multinational firms, assess alternatives for firms to return value to shareholders and apply options analysis to capital budgeting decisions.
85	This course will examine the complex and diverse nature of sports marketing from a strategic marketing perspective. Specific emphasis will be placed on the congingency framework for strategic sports marketing, with attention to market selection, marketing mix decisions, and the implementation and control of the strategic sorts marketing process. Additionally the course will examine marketing through sports; using sports as a platform for developing strategies and tactics to sell nonsports products.
86	The origin and development of the contemporary roles of the President as a decision maker and the importance of the presidency in the American Political System. Studies examining the selection process and the relationship between presidents and other decision- making actors, such as the Congress, interest groups, the courts and the bureaucracy, will be used to inform the students to help critically analyze both continuity and changes in the influence of the office
87	The study of those socially constructed institutions, beliefs, and conditions that result in differential outcomes within various populations in countries around the world. The course employs appropriate sociological theories and methodologies as it addresses not only the cause of social problems, but also their interrelationship with other problems as well as possible solutions.
88	Designed for students seeking a basic understanding of the biology of microorganisms with an emphasis on applications to health care.  Lectures cover the fundamentals of microbial morphology and physiology and the role of microorganisms in the environment and human disease.  Laboratory emphasizes standard techniques of staining, culturing and identifying bacteria.
89	A survey of the religious experiences and traditions of selected Non-Western peoples. The traditions which will be examined include the religions of native peoples, Buddhism, Hinduism, and traditions of China and Japan. Emphasis will be placed on the living and dynamic nature of these traditions in the past and their expressions in the contemporary world.
90	This academically oriented course will be taught in Arabic and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Arabic- speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad.
91	Managerial Economics applies economic theory to decision making under uncertainty and analyzes issues faced by managers of an organization.  This course provides a structural framework for analyzing the internal goals and operations of an organization and the external environment in which the organization operates.  Applying economic theory to organizational decisions can increase the rationality and predictability of a changing global competitive landscape.  The course focuses on how decisions affect issues associated with economic and social justice, and sustainability.  Topics include economic problem solving and decision making, consumer behavior, producer behavior, cost structures, strategic behavior and uncertainty, and organizational structure .
92	This course provides students with a thorough introduction to mergers and acquisitions.  Topics include motives for undertaking M&As, takeover and anti-takeover tactics, the valuation of M&As, tax, legal, and accounting issues, and leveraged buyouts.  The ethical issues involved, and the managers' potentially conflicting motives in undertaking these transactions, are also examined. 
93	A survey of the rise and development of world theatre, from its origins through the English Restoration, focusing on theatre architecture, plays, acting styles, theatrical con- ventions, methods of production and critical perspectives during significant periods of theatrical activity.  This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage.  A field trip to a professional production is required. 
94	An introductory course in elementary harmony. Its main objective is to engage students in, and guide them through, the creative processes involved in music making and analysis through music notation, melodic writing, and elementary harmony. The stated objectives are achieved by engaging students in frequent hands-on in-class exercises and a final project.
95	Selected German Readings offered as a tutorial for advanced students of German.
96	This course is open to all Creative Arts majors and minors. Students will do and present academic research and creative work in any medium for class critique and discussion with the goal of defining their cretive process and focusing their media and concepts. Art history majors will present papers critiquing their peers' work for discussion and feedback. In addition, contemporary arts theory and practice will be studied, analyzed and applied to one's own work. The class will also visit local arts organizations and come to better understand one's role as an artist in any specific community, the global publishing and electronic community, and one's options for both professional and avocational work in the arts.
97	Set between the crumbling of the Roman Empire and the time commonly called the Enlightenment, the Medieval and Renaissance periods encompassed a time of religious diversity, cultural contact, and shifting gender roles. Medieval and Renaissance Studies, a multidisciplinary field, introduces students to the founding traditions of Western Society. This course is an introduction to the nature and methodology of the field; the primary source materials including documents, poetry, music, art, letters, laws, and/or other sources; and the disciplines that comprise medieval and Renaissance studies.
98	Students will examine the critical role of strategic communication in achieving an organization's objectives, including during times of crisis.  Topics will cover a complete range of current communications tools and how to use them in a strategic way.  Emphasis will be placed on skills and techniques for developing an integrated approach towards communication and strategy. Students will learn and practice skills that apply to the changing world, including how to manage and communicate during times of organizational change, communicating in times of crisis, managing conflict, communicating to manage and implement large scale projects, and public relations and dealing with the news media, community and other stakeholders.
99	Students will review narrative accounts of the school experiences of adolescents from diverse backgrounds. Their first task will be to consider how narrative, empirical, and theoretical knowledge provide different perspectives on understanding the school lives of adolescents. Then, they will examine how cultural canons about adolescence influence the many ways young people live out their lives in school. They will review and interpret narrative accounts of schooling through fiction, autobiography, movies and self-reflection about adolescence. Students will not be given the answers or told what to think about adolescence and schooling. Rather, readings and class presentations will provide them with information and theoretical points of view which sometimes conflict. Ultimately, they will be asked to examine these multiple perspectives to create their own way of viewing adolescents in school settings. A twenty-hour field experience at the middle school or junior high school level is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student).
100	Web Application Development is a hands-on laboratory based course covering the design and implementation of dynamic web-based applications. Topics include server and application architecture, database-driven development, interface design, content management and security issues. Students will study the principles of extensibility, accessibility, and standardization and how they relate to the design of modern websites. 
101	This course explores the nature and causes of fluctuations in aggregate business activity and the technique used to forecast. To gain an understanding of these techniques, and the usefulness of forecasts, students will prepare a forecast and explore its application to firm decision making.
102	The application of mathematics and physics to the solution of macroscopic problems in chemistry. Topics include the properties of ideal and real gases, extensive and intensive properties, the laws and mathematics of thermodynamics, the chemical potential, chemical equilibrium of single and multiphase systems, ideal and real solutions, ionic solutions and electrochemistry, introductory chemical kinetics and kinetic molecular theory.
103	This course focuses on marketing entrepreneurship and innovation of new product development and management throughout the product life cycle. The first part of the course studies the new product/service development and marketing process from concept development and testing to market introduction for new or established organizations. Attention is devoted to creating an environmnet conducive to innovation, recognizing business opportunities, and assessing the market, customer, and competitive situations. The second aspect of the course relates to branding and brand management including the tasks of product positioning, brand personality and equity, and alternating branding strategies.  The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need in order to meet the needs of a diverse global market across all socio-economic groups.
104	This course surveys human mental processes. Cognition in- volves the ability to store, retrieve, and use knowledge. In-class demonstrations and activities supplement lecture material on attentional processes, memory, imagery, concept formation, language, reasoning, problem-solving, and cre- ativity. The course emphasizes theoretical and experimental aspects of cognitive psychology as well as everyday applica- tions, and relates cognitive processes to other areas of psychology such as development, clinical, social,and neuro- psychology.
105	This course will introduce the formal and narrative study of film.  We will focus on film history, the technology of film production, and the methodology of film studies as an academic discipline.  Through screenings, readings, discussion, and writing, students will develop a formal and aesthetic appreciation of film, and acquire a general awareness of film history and its key movements from its beginnings as a black and white silent art form to the contemporary global digital age.  We will pay particular attention to the cultural, political, and economic contexts from which it emerges.  This course is a requirement of the Film Studies Minor and it is highly recommended, but not required, as a prerequisite for other Film Minor courses.
106	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected German-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
107	Catholicism and American cultures encountered one another through misunderstanding and fear moving towards a period of intolerance and persecution. The course will examine how American Catholicism developed through justice issues such as religious freedom, social justice, racism, and gender equality. Using a thematic approach to studying the history of Catholicism in America, the course will also employ social science, psychological and political texts to paint the broadest picture of the development of American Catholicism.  A major focus will be on the development of the Franciscan missions along the west coast as well as the southern border of the United States.  These missions contributed further to the American Catholic experience
108	This course provides a hand-on, project-based introduction to the tools and techniques used to acquire and analyze astronomical data. It is intended primarily for Astrophysics majors. Topics covered include: introduction to the techniques of gathering and analyzing astronomical data; telescope design and optics; instrumentation for imaging, photometry and spectroscopy; astronomical detectors; image pro- cessing and data visualization; error analysis and curve fitting, data analysis and astrophysical interpretation.
109	This course provides a survey of the African experience from 1875 to the present.  It attempts to understand the historical processes which have made Africa what it is today-politically independent, but economically dependent and plagued by a myriad of problems and challenges which demand global/international attention. Themes and topics to be covered include the pros and cons of European imperialism in Africa, African resistance to colonial rule, struggles for national independence in the post-World War II decades, white settler regimes and race relations in Africa, pan-African movements, neo-colonialism and multi-national organizations and businesses, gender and women in African societies, health and medical problems and challenges, violence, corruption, and migrations in contemporary Africa, and the challenges and problems of modernization and development. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history.  Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
110	A thorough review of the structures of Arabic, supplemented by selective readings. The audio lingual aspect of the language is further developed, and the ability to read with understanding is increased. Further cultural study. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of two semesters of college Arabic.
111	A laboratory course in the study of physical chemistry. The objectives of this course are: (1) To provide the student with practical experience in the techniques of experimental physical chemistry. (2) To deepen the student's understanding of the principles of thermodynamics, kinetics, and spectroscopy through experimentation, (3) To develop more sophisticated and independent chemical laboratory skills in the student. (4) To increase the student's ability to communicate effectvely and pro- fessionally both in writing and in speech.
112	This is an applied course on current technologies used for predictive analytics with an emphasis on applications in business.  The course is based on case studies that incorporate typical challenges encountered in applications: Large transactional data sets with mixed types of variables e.g., qualitative and quantitative), missing data, lurking variables, confounded predictors and uncontrolled variation.  The emphasis of the course is on effective use of the methods, interpretation of results, and recognition of potential pitfalls in their use.  The role of effective data visualization is emphasized throughout the course.
113	In this course students will learn how forces and torques change (non-ideal) solid materials.  Concepts of load, pressure, and generalized Hooke's Law will be developed.  The stress and strain of beams and columns will be studied in detail.
114	It has often been noted that the Western tradition stands upon two great pillars: the Greco-Roman and the Judeo- Christian traditions. This course will give the student a broad introduction into the culture and civilization of the Greek people and how they still influence us. Within the course students will study the broad lines of Greek history, the major literary figures and their works, the principle ideas and institutions that informed Greek society, the great acheivements in art and architecture, Greek religious practice, and the ways in which the ancient Greeks live on into the present day and why they still command our attention.
115	This course analyzes the major modalities of social work treatment with an emphasis on their current use in social work practice and their challenges in research.  The course focuses on the importance of various theories and on the integratioon of these into practice.
116	This is a student-centered course designed for those who seek an intellectually exciting, collaborative learning experience.  Instruction is conducted in a seminar format, with students encouraged to take an active role in determining the direction of the class.  Students will meet weekly to discuss classic literary works of the Western tradition, such as Homer's Odyssey and Shakespeare's Much Ado about Nothing, as well as contemporary multicultural works.
117	An introduction to protein structure and function, enzyme kinetics, and the regulation of metabolism. Laboratory component provides experience with concepts and techniques in- troduced in lecture and features an independent project in protein purification using state-of-the-art column chromatography and gel electrophoresis equipment.
118	This  course is a comparative study of U.S. and German media which focuses on its content, form, and impact. In this course, students will: decode, evaluate and compare data presented in a variety of U.S. and German information sources; analyze how media and its message are presented in both countries; and, critically reflect upon the media message and their understanding of it. This course will consider printed, audio, and visual information as text which will be analyzed for its information content, its social, and cultural bias, as well as any possible intended manipulation of the reader's/listener's/viewer's perspective. Throughout this course, the interpretation of the medium will consistently focus attention on the Franciscan heritage concern which embraces a broad sense of tradition. Media has been a means of communication since humans existed. The study of media, in its diverse forms (visual, audio or printed) always had and has a subtext grounded in a culture and heritage which evolved through the ages. This course will be taught in English. All German materials will be in translation, dubbed, or subtitled.
119	This course examines English literature from the 1830s to the turn of the 20th century.  Through critical reading and writing assignments, students will explore such themes as Industrialization, the Impact of Empire, Self and Society, Childhood, and the Role of Women.  Works by such authors as Tennyson, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning, Dickens, Lewis Carroll, Wilde, and the Brontes will be included.
120	This course is the second part of a two course research methods sequence. It includes in-depth coverage of several quantitative approaches to political science research. Particular attention will be given to survey research, experiments and quasi-experiments, and the use of aggregate data. A broad range of descriptive and inferential statistics techniques are also covered in this course.
121	An intoduction to the basic techniques of journalistic writing. Among the areas covered are: conducting interviews, researching news stories, examining categories of journalistic writing, journalistic ethics
122	Personal Finance is a course for non-business majors, which prepares them to confront the critical financial decisions they will  face during their lifetimes. It will provide students with the knowledge to analyze how decisions concerning topics such as money management, tax planning, consumer credit, home financing, insurance, and financial planning, will impact their personal financial goals. In addition, this course also focuses on raising awareness of the adverse impacts personal financial decisions can have on others in society. Topics featured include:environmentally-friendly investments, socially responsible mutual funds, the role of charitable giving and taxes.
123	Explores the origin and sequence of ancient philosophy from the Pre-Socratics through Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, and Hellenistic and Roman successors. Emphasis on careful study of fragments from early Greek thinkers, Platonic dialogues, major works by Aristotle, and later Epicurean and Stoic writings. Questions elucidate the discovery of nature, being, becoming, and areas of human knowledge and ethics.
124	A comprehensive study of the literatures of the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible and the religious, historical, sociological, and economic factors which affected both their writing and their eventual acceptance as canonical literature by Judaism and Christianity. The course will expose the students to samples of all the main literary genres of the Old Testament and will study them using most of the comtemporary biblical methodologies. The course will emphasize that the Hebrew Bible emerged on the broader stage of the ancient Near East between the high cultures of Mesopotamia and Egypt. It will aslo approach many crucial topics in the Old Testament such as the evolution of biblical monotheism, Israelite religion(s), the emergence of Israel in Canaan, Creation and Covenant.
125	Taught in seminar style and drawing from social work, Franciscan, and other related perspectives, students will explore how loss and grief interrelate with nature and the natural world.  Within the spectrum of diversity based on gender, age, race, ethnicity, culture, disability, religion and spirituality, social class, and through the broader context of scientific methods of inquiry, students will critically analyze quantitatively and qualitatively based models pertaining to stages/phases of grief and loss.
126	This course will explore the changing intellectual, economic, institutional and cultural relationships that have characterized medicine in world history from antiquity to the present.  We will consider the education of practitioners, the locations of healing, the availability of treatment, and the expectations that people had of medicine as ideas about the body and illnness shifted radically with new discoveries and theories about health and disease.  We will study the evolution of public health and examine the social responses to epidemic disease. Students will learn about the role of general social and cultural trends (industrialization, technology) in shaping medical practice and the medical professions.
127	A survey of data communication and networks. Topics to be covered include techniques of transmission, protocols for line control, error detection and correction, communication software, various types of network systems, distributed applications, and performance evaluation.
128	The history of Great Britain and the empire from 1815 to the present, with emphasis on political, social, and economic changes.
129	This course examines all aspects of writing and reporting nonfiction feature reports for various media platforms. Student projects include human interest stories and profile pieces.  Topics addressed include Associated Press Style, literary journalism, researching source material, interviewing subjects, and audio/visual storytelling techniques.  Students shoot and edit video using HD cameras and Final Cut Pro software.
130	Emphasis is on the deversity of living organisms including morphology, phylogeny, physiology, and ecology of major taxa. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphasis is on the diversity of life.
131	A survey course designed to help students recognize the interrelationship between human behavior and firm performance in the valuation of stocks and bonds.  The central theme of this course will be how and why forces in the economy (both behavioral and economic) lead to the establishment of stock prices.  Through projects and simulations, students will explore the interrelationships between financial institutions, financial policies and stock market valuations. 
132	This course examines how the Roman Catholic Church has influenced and been influenced by the process of globalization. Students investigate both the impact the Catholic Church has had on the non-North Atlantic societies in which it has taken root and the diversity of Catholic thought and practice occasioned by its worldwide growth.
133	This course serves as the foundational course, introducing the nursing student to the philosophical and conceptual framework of the Ellis Medicine the Belanger School of Nursing.  As the Continuum of Care conceptual framework is considered, concepts related to the integral nature of the nursing profession within the healthcare system will be discussed.  Clinical reasoning and therapeutic communications skills will be developed through the application of the nursing process. The student will be introduced to Quality and Safety Education in Nursing (QSEN), teaching and professional/ legal roles of the nurse. 
134	Epistemology is the study of knowledge, justification, and rational belief. Topics may include: skepticism; theories of knowledge and justification; the structure of knowledge and justification; sources of epistemic normativity; the value of knowledge; rationality and epistemic responsibility; testimony, memory, and perception; and, rationalism, empiricism, and pragmatism.
135	Students will explore compelling issues of the era of Queen Elizabeth I through their treatment in diverse literary work images of the self, the myth of the Golden Age, and the controversy over gender roles.  Readings will be selected from writers such as Sir Thomas More, Edmund Spenser, Philip and Mary Sidney, and Queen Elizabeth.
136	An introductory exploration of both the theory and practice of directing for the stage. Students will direct contentless scenes, short plays and/or contextual scenes from full length works, collaborating with students as an integral part of the course. This course is designed for students with an intermediate to advanced level of theatre experience and training.  A field trip to a professional production is required. 
137	examines social policy in a global context by focusing on two distinct, but related areas of inquiry.  In the first half of the course, students will learn about theories of the welfare state, and--through comparative analysis--about the similarities and differences between selected social welfare systems in economically developed countries.  In the second segment, students will explore the impact of economic and political globalization on national social policies and social welfare provisions in both developed and developing countries.  Social Policy Without Borders provides knowlede and analytical skills for students in a variety of disciplines (social work, sociology, political science, economics, health studies, etc.) who are interested in working with marginalized populations, whether in the United States or - through international organizations--in other countries. Social Policy Without Borders' includes a 2 day trip to Montreal, where students will meet with their counterparts at McGill University.  This visit will include a panel discussion about social policies in Canaca and the United States, as well as visits to Canadian social welfare agencies. 
138	A study of a language that is essential for scholary study of the Bible of Qur'an. This course may be taken for up to four semesters of Arabic Greek, Hebrew, or other languages (e.g. Latin, Aramaic) related to scripture study.
139	An intoduction to issues and applications of wildlife conservation strategies in forested ecosystems of the eastern United States. We examine the interrelationships between changing land-use patterns, forest management practices and wildlife population dynamics. Emphasis is placed on identification of common woodland birds and mammals as well as habitat management options for restoration and maintenance of biological diversity. At least one Saturday field trip is required.
140	A study of selected novels designed to increase appreciation of the genre. Works from the nineteenth century to the present will be read with emphasis placed on the techniques and purposes of the authors.
141	An overview of the religious traditions of various native peoples such as Native Americans, Africans and Pacific Islanders. The role of religious experience in the cultural, historical and social worlds of these peoples is considered in their historical and modern settings. The course will pay special attention to the contributions of these peoples to the religious and cultural worlds of modern times.
142	A survey of Latin American culture and civilization from pre-Hispanic days to the present. This course will focus on specific historical moments throughout Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, the Southern Cone and the Andes, as well as on some works on post-colonial theory. It will also identify and analyze a diverse range of written and audio-visual cultural material that includes short stories, essays, films and music, among others.
143	This course aims to accomplish four main objectives: (1) To delineate the areas in which sales executives make decisions; (2) To analyze and evaluate sales in which sales management decision making criteria and processes; (3) To engage students in a presentation designed to relate the text materials to sales management situations; (4) In addition to the above, students will be introduced to an overview of basic principles of selling.
144	Motivational questions are fundamental to all of Psychology. The psychology of motivation inquires about the conditions which serve to initiate, maintain, direct, and terminate ongoing behavior. This course considers theory and research associated with the major perspectives on human motivation including instinct, ethological, and sociobiological theories, drive theories, arousal theory; expectancy-value theories, humanistic theories, cognitive consistency theories, and theories of casual attribution. The experimental and clinical significance of these viewpoints receive comparable attention.
145	This course studies elements of linear algebra with an emphasis on applications. Topics covered include matrices, systems of equations, finite dimensional vector spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
146	A beginning studio course exploring the history of photography, the mechanics of making pictures, and the range of conceptual approaches found within this expansive medium. Students develop a digital workflow using Lightroom, Camera RAW, Photoshop, and Epson Inkjet Printers. Aesthetic issues regarding composition, light, subject matter, and photographic vision are stressed.
147	An advanced management course that addresses the various perspectives on the increased diversity of the population in today's organizations. The couse primarily focuses on issues of race, gender and ethnicity in organizations. However, other factors that contribute to a diverse organizational population such as disability, age discrimination, class and sexual orientation are also analyzed. The course uses a wide variety of techniques to address diversity in organizations, relating these issues to current demographic trends, the global marketplace and geoethnic transformations.
148	This course surveys Native American creation myths, oral history, poetry and prose by such authors as Black Elk, N. Scott Momday, Louise Erdnick, James Welch, Leslie Marmon Silko, Sherman Alexie and Linda Hogan.  Students will study the literature within its cultural and historical context. The course may include films, guest lectures and a field trip.
149	This course is designed to give students a deeper understanding of the definitions of relationship violence, including the impact it has in society.  Topics to be covered include adult domestic violence, physical and sexual child abuse, child neglect, rape, elder abuse, abuse in the gay and lesbian communities, and pet abuse. In addition, we will evaluate the various impacts of the violence across socioeconomic lines, the role that gender plays in adult domestic violence. We will also review how social service systems, including social work, education, medical professionals, and the criminal justice system, play a part in the perpetuation of the various types of violence and how they are attempting to reduce the effects of this problem on our society.  The course format includes lecture, presentations, discussion, reading assignments, papers, and examinations.
150	Description and analysis of the causes for the disruption of the Union, the conduct of the war, and the policies of the Reconstruction era.
151	This course considers recent Irish writing in the context of the historical, political, religious, economic, and cultural influences that have shaped that literature. Readings will be drawn from a variety of backgrounds and genres, and may include works by William Trevor, Conor McPherson, Eavan Boland, Nuala Ni Dhomhnaill, and Brian Friel.
152	This course examines health care systems, their policies and outcomes throughout the developed world. The delivery of care, organizational structure, the impact of political and economic characteristics as well as health outcomes within populations provide the framework within which health systems are analyzed. In addition, the impact of health care policies on the larger society as well as emerging trends and problems are explored.
153	Visual Culture of the Spanish-Speaking World, taught in English, will address visual cultural products produced in Latin America, Spain, the Caribbean, and Latino/as in the United States.  Through the study of films, street art, photography, illustration, paintings, and protest art, among other media, students will gain an appreciation for the vast diversity amongst Iberoamerican cultures.  The study of visual culture will be used to delve into themes such as gender equality, immigration, class disparities, and ethnic and religious minorities framed within socio- political contexts.  The goal of the course is to reach a further understanding of the rich and diverse visual cultural production in a wide variety of Spanish- speaking contexts. 
154	The course intrduces the concepts and practices of data- base design and use from a business perspective. Topics to be covered include data models (object, entity-relationship, and relational, for example), database design techniques, data dictionaries, query language, (e.g. SQL, QBE), require- ments analysis, legacy systems, databases for decision support, presentation techniques (forms, web pages, etc.) and basic information on database use in business settings. This course includes hand-on use of a common business database management system to illustrate and emphasize the concepts.
155	The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the politics of Latin America and the Caribbean and to gain insight into the numerous social, political, and economic dilemmas confronting our neighbors in the Americas. Through the study of selected cases some of the more significant contemporary issues in the region will be explored, including the foreign debt crisis, environmental concerns, immigration, and the process of democratization.
156	The development of the American West from its role in the Anglo-French conflict for empire to the official closing of the frontier by the census of 1890.
157	This course will examine some of the most well-researched and interesting psychological disorders of childhood and ad- olescence, including clinical descriptions, DSM-IV diagnostic criteria, and theoretical bases for the explana- tion and treatment of these disorders. Included will be an overview of some psychosocial contributors to psychological problems of childhood, including child sexual and physical abuse. In addition, the course will cover psychotherapeutic interventions with children and adolescents.
158	This academically oriented course will be taught in Italian and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in Italy. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio- economic knowledge acquired abroad.
159	This course reviews the organizational and societal context in which healthcare is delivered in the United States.  In response to the Institute of Medicine 2010 report on The Future of Nursing: Leading Change, Advancing Health, this course prepares nurses to lead change and advance health through knowledge of how public and private policies are made.  The historical perspective is developed early in the semester and is built upon to explore existing health policy and delivery systems including legislation, the professional disciplines, organizations, and health networks, forms of care delivery, consumer needs, and economics and funding.  The course ends with a focus on future forms of delivery that would improve the health care status of the American population as a whole.
160	This course introduces the learner to health care delivery systems, how health care policy impacts the delivery of care, the management of transitions of care across healthcare settings, and the care processes that support patient and families' management of health.  Students will be expected to apply the care processes to the care of patients and families across the diversity of health care settings. Students will utilize evidence and information technology to identify hospital and community resources to safely meet the needs of patients and families.  The student will recognize the role of the nurse as a patient advocate within and across care settings.
161	This is an introductory course to the scientific principles that govern the structure and properties of materials, including metals, ceramics, semiconductors, and polymers. Emphasis is placed on how the underlying bonding and atomic structure determine the physical properties of the material (mechanical, electrical, thermal, optical) at multiple length scales, from atomic packing to micron scale. The course reviews practical applications to engineering materials and aspects of modern nanomaterials, from the viewpoint of thermodynamics and physical kinetics.
162	A basic survey of the visual arts with the intention of developing the student's appreciation and knowledge of art as an expression of human culture from the 15th century to the present.
163	This laboratory course gives students a hands-on intro- duction to the physical nature of biological macromolecules. Topics such as the thermodynamic impact on the structure of these macromolecules and the interactions between the macromolecules and small biological molecules will be investigated. This course will also emphasize many of the various techniques commonly encountered in a biochemistry laboratory such Fluorescence and UVNis spectroscopies, biocalorimetery, and limited proteolysis. This course will also cover many of the common approaches to biochemical data analysis such as computer modeling and bioinformatics searches.
164	The course will emphasize concepts and principles that enable the student to understand the philosophy and environment of auditing and assurance services.  It is an overview of the public accounting profession and the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards utilized by the profession in reporting on the financial statements of enterprises.
165	Topics covered include working capital management, the use of long-term financing and leverage. It will also deal with the special topics of mergers or international finance.
166	A study in English of the Greco-Roman myths that deal with the heroes and heroines of the Greek royal houses, of the Trojan War, of the journey home; the legends involving Theseus, Heracles, Perseus, and Jason; certain local traditions of myths; the transformation of the Greek heroic tradition among the Romans, in particular that of the Trojan Aeneas; theoretical perspectives will be used to understand ancient conceptions of heroism and how they have influenced the later tradition.
167	This course prepares students to identify and assess new venture opportunities to begin a business on their own as either a traditional or social entrepreneur, or within an established corporate setting.  The following topics will be explored to build entrepreneurial capabilities; defining entrepreneurship, ideation and early-stage evaluation of new ventures, conducting due diligence and feasibility assessments, business model development, resource acquisition, generating sales and marketing initiatives for a new venture, competitvely managing a growing venture, and exploring the unique challenge of creating an organization that creates more than financial value.
168	The Qur'an is sacred scrpture and Muslims believe it was revealed to Prophet Mohammad Ibn Abdullah in Arabic over a period of 23 years in Arabia where the first Islamic community developed. This course examines the range of religious experiences represented by the Qur'an text, its geographical surroundings from which it emerged, its inter- preters, and its critics. With the use and examination of various translations of the Qur'an, the course examines the religion and culture of the pre-Islamic period, the history of the text including Hadith literature, and the relation- ship between the Qur'an and Jewish and Christian scriptures, acting to familiarize students with its broad scope.
169	The purpose of this course is to enable the student to present original data in a clear and well- organized report, modeled after the format of original scientific research papers in Biology. Students will receive instruction in various facets of the of the scientific method including: experimental design, data analysis and presentation accessing and understanding the scientific literature, and the format of the primary research paper. The course emphasizes group workshops and includes extensive practice in writing, peer editing, and revising scientific papers.
170	A study of the revolution and its Napoleonic aftermath in its French and international aspects.
171	This course introduces students to the range of activities and issues of major concern to contemporary industrial and organizational psychologists. The evolution of the field is viewed in historical perspective. Major topics in personnel psychology include personnel selection and placement, utility models and profitability, employee training and de- velopment, and performance appraisal concepts and tech- niques. The current legal guidelines regarding Equal Employ- ment Opportunity and Affirmative Action are considered as they impact on personnel practice. Topics in organizational psychology include work motivation, job satisfaction and the quality of life, and perspectives on leadership and supervisory role.
172	This academically oriented course will be taught in French and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected French- speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/ research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad.
173	This course applies social work practice knowledge, values, ethics, and skills to working with organizations and communities. Emphasis is placed on how diversity can influence work with these systems and on practice approaches and skills used to enhance people's well- being and ameliorate environmental conditions that adversely affect such systems.
174	The course examines the underlying causes for the origins and propagation of the Great Recession of 2007.  Though the primary trigger for the recession was the subprime mortgage crisis, but its origin can be traced to lax monetary policies, the saving glut, deregulation, securitization, the widespread use of derivatives, and income and wealth polarization.  In response to the crisis, various monetary and fiscal policy steps have been taken.  The purpose of this course is to develop analytical tools to understand the crises and policies henceforth from mainstream and heterodox perspective.  In the process we will focus on understanding how money, the banking system, and the financial markets interact and affect the economy. We will also look at past financial crises in the United States and elsewhere in the world to compare and contrast the Great Recession of 2007.
175	A survey of contempory writings in the chemical sciences designed to acquaint students with recent advances in the field and with the progression of chemical thought.
176	This course examines American history through a global lens.  It focuses on the effect of globalization on the development of the economy, society, culture and government of the United States to 1877.  Students examine migration and cultural interactions among Native Americans, Africans, Europeans and Asians; the origins of the market economy and new labor systems; and the effect of the Enlightenment and religious revivals on political and cultural development. Additional topics covered will vary with the expertise of the instructor.  This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history.  Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
177	A study of the interactions between members of the international system to provide for military, economic, environmental, and social security.  Concepts such as power, international law, international organization, human rights, sustainable development, collective security, and national security are examined. 
178	This course covers fluids and heat transport.  We will study fluid statics, Bernoulli's equation, viscosity, laminar and turbulent flow, lift and drag, the consequences of conservation of mass, energy and momentum in fluids.  The latter topic will lead into a broader discussion of the types of heat flow.
179	This course uses mathematical methods to solve both macroscopic and microscopic problems in chemistry. Specific emphasis will be on chemical kinetics, quantum mechanics, and the theory and practice of atomic and molecular spectroscopy. Topics include the applications of chemical kinetics, experimental foundations of quantum theory, postulates of quantum mechanics, solutions of the Schrodinger equation for simple systems, the hydrogen atom, angular momentum, selection rules and atomic spectroscopy, Huckel molecular theory, symmetry and group theory, rotational, vibrational, and electronic spectroscopy, and experimental applications of molecular spectroscopy.
180	A study of the period as affected by the First World War, the Russian Revolution, the rise of Fascism in Italy and Nazism in Germany, the Great Depression, the problems of the democratic states, the breakdown of international cooperation, and World War II.
181	An up-to-date and comprehensive treatment of the aspects of accounting systems building with appropriate emphasis on data for decision making. The interrelationships of the functions of recording, processing, and analysis, using the principles of good systems building, are blended with the manual and automated devices.
182	The lectures will cover the structure and function of individual neurons and neuronal circuits in both invertebrate and vertebrate species. Topics will include electrical signalling and action potentials, ion channels, synaptic transmission, neuronal plasticity, and general principles governing sensory and motor processing. The laboratory will provide students with hands on experience using fundamental electrophysiological techniques. Students will also investigate neuronal function using computer simulations of ion channels, neurons and circuits.
183	The study of the reign of Nicholas II (1894-1917), the Soviet period, and post-Soviet Russia.
184	Introduction to elementary German grammer, syntax, and vocabulary. Designed for students with no previous knowledge of German.
185	Continued study of contemporary accounting theory and the application of generally accepted accounting principles to various financial statement items.
186	This course is a study of women's various roles in litera- ture from classical to modern times.  Novels, short stories, poems, dramas, biographies and autobiographies across cultures and class emphasize the evolving image of women and the role of women as writers of literature.
187	Customer insight is the foundation of marketing.  In this course students will learn how to use quantitative and qualitative research methods to understand customer preference, attitudes, and behavior, ultimately using the findings to develop effective marketing strategies.  The course will also introduce relevant consumer behavior theories to explain research findings. 
188	This course is designed to introduce and further develop the concepts within the three domains (themes) of individual, health and nursing.  Emphasis is placed on the concepts of cellular regulation, health, wellness, immunity, infection, metabolism, nutrition, perfusion, sexuality, oxygenation, thermoregulation, addiction, development, family, grief and loss, mood and affect, reproduction, and teaching and learning.  This course will develop health promotion strategies and consider health concerns across the life span.  A focused clinical component will include inpatient and outpatient settings. 
189	Machine learning is the subfield of artificial intelligence that uses data mining and statistical pattern recognition to learn algorithms to classify data, make predictions and solve data intense problems. Topics include: Supervised learning using regression, support vector machines, and neural networks; Unsupervised learning including clustering, dimensionality reduction, and recommender systems. Students will engage in hands- on activities to design and implement learning algorithms and systems for solving problems in areas such as robotics, text understanding, computer vision, medical informatics, database mining, and other areas.
190	This course will explore the critical role of leadership in achieving an organization's strategic objectives.  Emphasis will be placed on how ledership theories and skills are most effectively applied in complex, real-world organizations. The leaders' social responsibilities to stakeholders, the external environment, and the natural world will be incorporated throughout the course.  Students will also have the opportunity to reflect on and develop their own leadership skills.
191	The evolution and development of Rusian society and currents of thought from Kievan Rus to the present.
192	This is a multi-genre survey of American literature produced in the contemporary period (1980s to the present). We will examine literary texts in their historical, social and aesthetic contexts, exploring the various ways American literature responds to the complexities of race, class, gender, and sexuality in contemporary society. In part, this means thinking about American literature in an increasingly postmodern, multicultural, global context. Course readings will draw from a diverse range of contemporary American authors. Reading selections will vary, but could include works by: Sherman Alexie, T.C. Boyle, Raymond Carver, Junot Diaz, Don DeLillo, Louise Erdrich, Jeffrey Eugenides, Jonathan Franzen, Jorie Graham, Gish Jen, Edward P. Jones, Jhumpa Lahiri, Change-rae Lee, Cormac McCarthy, Toni Morrison, Sharon Olds, Philip Roth, Kay Ryan, Paula Vogel, and August Wilson.
193	To increase proficiency in speaking Italian.
194	The course stresses rhythmical and expressive movement within the jazz idiom. While the course focuses primarily on Jazz Dance technique, some ballet and modern technique will be included in the warm-up. The class will consist of warm-up, isolations, strengthening and stretching exercises and patterns through space. Work will be done in the center as well as across the floor.
195	A study of applied methodology using the R program. Topics from among the following will be covered: experimental design and analysis of variance, multiple regresion, and nonparametric statistical methods. Bayesian decision making, time series, discriminant analysis and autoregressive modeling.
196	This course examines the social mechanisms through which power, wealth, and prestige are distributed in contemporary societies with special attention to such major determinants as race, sex, property, and occupation.Some time will be spent on the consequences of the class structure for life- style. The course also examines rates and patterns of social mobility in modern societies.
197	This course includes a study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include sets, functions, mathematical induction, complexity analysis of algorithms, counting methods including probability, recurrence relations, graphs, trees, Boolean logic, and relations.  Proofs using mathematical induction will be emphasized.  Other proof techniques will be developed.
198	A study of the quantitative methods used in Management. The topics covered, both in theory and application, include goal, integer and dynamic programming, inventory control, simulation techniques, transportation and assignment problems, queuing, network models, Markov chains, and Heuristics.
199	An advanced marketing course which utilizes a universal analytical approach to solving marketing problems at the executive marketing and managerial level. The course draws heavily from materials found in marketing principles, economics, mathematics, and the behavioral sciences, presented to the student in a textual format. Each student will participate in the analysis of case studies to gain experience and skill in the strategy decision-making process.
200	This course examines American history through a global lens.  It provides a broad survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power and its changing role in the world from the Civil War era to 2001.  Topics will include immigration and industrialization, social and political reform, cycles of prosperity and recession as well as technology as a driving force in American development.  Additional topics covered will vary with the expertise of the instructor. This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history.  Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
201	Political theory provides conceptual clarification evaluating what is just in the context of power in political life. This course introduces you to the field of political theory by focusing on social justice concepts such as equality, freedom, rights, power, law,diversity, and morality. In this course, we will approach political theory through attention to: 1. the historical location of ideas, 2. the literary or rhetorical nature of our texts, and 3. matters of contemporary relevance for thinking about political experiences today. We will read both classics in the field as well as important contemporary thinkers.
202	A survey of Greek literature in English translation from the Homeric to the Hellenistic Age.
203	Beginning with the two developing countries (China and India) that together represent forty percent of the world's population, this course takes students beyond the confines of allopathic medicine and into a world where traditional medicine and its practitioners provide health care to the general population. A significant component of the course explores the increasing interface between traditional forms of health care and allopathic medicine and the wide-ranging economic, political, and social realities that fragment populations and the impact of these realities on health and health outcomes.
204	A survey course designed to introduce students to the cross-cultural and global economic issues that have an impact on doing business.  Through projects and case studies, students will explore the impact of cultural and economic differences on how business decisions are made. 
205	This course will analyze developments in American education from the colonial period to the present.  Since educational theories and systems create and are created by the social, intellectual, economic, and political milieu, educational developments will be viewed in the light of important trends in American society.  Attention will be given to fundamental ideological questions including the relationship of power and participation to education and instruction in a democratic society.
206	An advanced marketing course designed to focus on the practical needs of the marketing manager when making marketing decisions regarding price and quantitative analysis of data. The course will encompass two major components: (1) A comprehensive and practical focus to pricing analysis and strategy development to manage markets strategically in order to improve the competitveness and profitability of offers for organizations. (2) A focus on developing and utilizing quantitative marketing decision models to plan, implement, and analyze marketing strategies and tactics. Students will learn how to analyze data when making strategic and tactical marketing decisions, skills that are increasing in demand in corporations and non profit organizations today.
207	This course examines the origins and historical development of Christianity, including its contemporary, global diversity. It will not adopt the perspective of any one Christian tradition, but will include a variety of perspectives, from within Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Protestant, and dissenting traditions. The course explores major issues and movements within Christianity that have been important in the development of western intellectual, cultural, and religious traditions. These may include sin and redemption, the imitation of Christ, worship and devotion, colonialism and the spread of Christianity, and the Church and secular society in America.
208	An extensive treatise on molecular orbital theory/bonding, symmetry/group theory, spectroscopy, kinetics/reaction mech- anisms, and photochhemistry of transition metal coordination compounds. Special topics such as the chemistry of metallo- enzymes, organometallic compounds, the chemistry of materials, or industrial catalysis may also be covered as time permits.
209	A thorough review of the structures of the French language, supplemented by selected readings. Emphasis will be placed on the oral aspect of the language.
210	This introductory course in computational chemistry will discuss molecular mechanics, molecular dynamics, semiempirical, and particulary av initio computational approaches. Students will learn to run major computational chemistry software packages on state-of-the-art workstations (Spartan, Gaussian, GAMESS, VASP, TINKER). The selection of appropriate techniques for solving a variety of chemical problems will be emphasized. The focus of the course will also be on the analysis, visualization, and interpretation of results from calculations employing the various computational methods. A good undergraduate-level quantum chemistry background is expected.
211	Web Design is a hands-on laboratory based course covering the design and implementation of websites using markup languages, style sheets, and various software tools and applications. Lecture will cover the history and development of the Internet, the World Wide Web, and the core technologies used to implement modern websites. Students will learn about the importance of semantic markup, language standardization. and separation of content and appearance. The course will focus on web interface design using forms, techniques for integrating a wide range of media formats, and design fundamentals needed in implementing effective, user-friendly websites.
212	The purpose of this course is to teach students how to tutor others in writing.  The major emphasis of this course is on writing: analyzing your own writing processes while learn- ing to talk to others about theirs.  This course is required for anyone who wants to be a Writing Center tutor.
213	The course consists of studio work in Level II modern dance technique, principles and style. The student is expected to master the elements of alignment, placement, rhythm and execution of movements that are unique to the modern dance idiom.
214	This course is designed to help the professional explore, select and model large quantities of data to uncover novel patterns and new insight into mature business processes. Students will learn when and how to use various mining techniques from large datasets chosen from the accounting, finance and marketing areas. Topics may include forecasting, clustering, nearest neighborhood classification and regression, principal component analyses and factor analyses.  Topics are expected to change as the discipline continues to redefine itself.
215	The student is introduced to a systematic treatment of global marketing. The emphasis is on the problems and opportunities available to exporters of U.S. products and services, as well as organizations with multinational or global operations. Attention is devoted to cultural, social, and economic factors that affect marketing on a global scale. Suggested for students enrolled in International Studies, Foreign Languages and Business Program.
216	The role of the financial manager is examined in context with the legal operating and tax environment of contemporary business firms. Attention is focused on financial analysis and planning, the time value of money, risk-return relationships, cash flow, and asset/liability management as well as investment priorities, capital structure, valuation techniques, and capital budgeting applications. Special concerns dealing with mergers, restructuring, and international finance are also addressed.
217	This course provides a forum for observing, analyzing, discussing, and evaluating the effect of images on society. It offers training in visual literacy, the psychology of coding, perceiving and interpreting images.
218	This course explores the use of improvisation as a tool for the further development of the art of making dance. Students will explore the freedom of movement and with it, experimentation. The class will help the students gain an increased sensitivity to time, space, energy, motion, oneself and other people. Students will develop the skill to take an idea, concept or feeling and express it non-verbally Students will learn to improvise with their bodies as an instrument, with abstract elements of dance and with the environment in which dance exists.
219	Orchestra is a performance based course that explores the performance, history, literature, and theory of orchestral music from a global perspective. Thus, the course explores orchestral repertoire from diverse cultures and musical styles drawn from different historical periods so as to expose students and audiences to the various ways, styles, and techniques of interpreting different types of music.
220	The study of Italian pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar and composition with supplementary reading in the language. 
221	This course treats industrialization and social change, the emergence of socialism and workers' movements, political and economic liberalism, German and Italian unification, Social Darwinism, and European imperialism.
222	A study of the impact of European intrusion on he history and culture of the American Indians. Consideration will be given to the relationship between the Indian peoples and the United States government and the consequences of its policies as well as the Indians' efforts to maintain their cultural identity.
223	Research is increasingly utilized by managers. Students will benefit from a better understanding of exactly how research is conducted by participating in a genuine, professional research project. This project focuses on defining the problem, designing the appropriate methods and strategies for gathering data, analyzing and interpreting the data, and reporting the findings to the particular client. Practical knowledge of a statistical software package is an integral part of the course.
224	This course examines the foundations of economic theory as it relates to unemployment, inflation, and economic growth. Topics might include aggregate demand, aggregate supply, market equilibrium, national income accounting, theories of income determination, money and banking, and fiscal and monetary policies.
225	This course is an introduction to logic for students of contemporary philosophy and its allied fields (mathematics, computer science, political science, social and cognitive science, etc.) It is intended for beginning students and covers: basic formal approaches to standard propositional and predicate logic, together with philosophically important extensions of standard deductive logic; basic formal approaches to inductive logic; and elementary philosophy of logic.
226	Business Strategy provides students with the ability to understand strategy insights, reflect on strategic issues, and practice using strategy tools needed to become strategic thinkers.  Coursework is concerned with decisions and actions that affect the performance and survival of business enterprises.  Students will reflect on the purpose of organizations, their governance, and their role towards diverse stakeholders and society in general. This required a constant monitoring of a business's external and internal organizational environment to become aware of the changing dynamics of any business situation.  Business Strategy educates managers about the information, analysis, organizational processes, and business judgement required to devise strategies, define firm boundaries, maximize long- term profits and survival in the face of uncertainty and competition and equip the organization to work for the health and wellbeing of society and the planet.
227	In this class, we will study of the basic principles of the organometallic chemistry of the d-block elements. Topics will include a survey of coordination chemistry, the properties and reactions of organometallic complexes, and applications of organotransition metal compounds in catalysis, organic synthesis, bioinorganic chemistry and medicinal chemistry. In addition to lectures, we will discuss current literature in the field.
228	A continuation of with emphasis on the functional group chemistry of aromatics, alcohols, ethers, carbonyl compounds, carboxylic acids and their derivatives, and bio- organic molecules. Resonance theory, conjugation, aroma- ticity, multistep organic syntheses, and reaction mechanism are explored in detail. Functional group chemistry and multi step syntheses are stressed in the laboratory, along with spectroscopic and chromatographic analysis of products.
229	This interdisciplinary course introduces students to the geology, flora and fauna, history, literature and environ- mental politics of New York's Adirondack Mountains. Follow- ing a historical survey, the course looks at contemporary environmental policy issues: acid rain, second home development, invasive species, over-use of popular areas, among others. The course includes either a weekend camping trip or several day-trips (one of which may be service-oriented).
230	This course addresses the general principles of financial reporting, underscoring the critical role of the analysis of financial reports in investment decision making. Emphasis is put on (1) the relationship between each financial statement (2) the technologies used to analyze them, and (3) particular distortions bassed on reporting for specific categories of assets and liabilities, alternative financial reporting policies, and differences between a company's reported financial statements and economic reality. All topics covered follow closely the CFA level 1 Body of Knowledge for financial reporting and analysis.
231	An advanced course in entrepreneurship focusing on developing, planning, financing and launching new business ventures. The course will require students to integrate the functional areas of business in developing, writing and presenting a real business plan for an entrepreneurial start-up or an existing small business.
232	In this course students will apply the practices, strategies and technologies companies use to manage and analyze customer interactions and data throughout the customer lifecycle.  The course focuses on how to improve business relationships with customers, assist in customer retention and drive sales growth.
233	This course is designed to further develop the concepts within four themes of the individual, health, nursing, and healthcare environment.  This course will emphasize advancing concepts of the complex patient.  The clinical component is focused on the development of a broader perspective of the nurse's role using evidence and sound judgment when implementing care to patients with changing situations.  Upon completion, students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge, and skills necessary to provide safe, quality, and holistic care to patients with advanced alterations in health status. Students will function as a patient and family advocate providing teaching across various situations. 
234	with stress upon more complicated structures, more extensive and specialized vocabularies.  The aim is to prepare the student for increased ease and ability to carry on day-to-day activities in French. 
235	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in Italy. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, student present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
236	A study of men's experience as gendered persons, rather than as universal human beings, from the perspectives of men's studies and religious ethics. The course will examine gender relations and critical theory as well as specific topics related to men's lives, such as: growing up male, seasons of men's lives, friends and lovers, sexuality and marriage, careers and fatherhood, politics and war, and new spiritual and social visions.
237	Advertising's role in the marketing mix is related to local regional, and national sales efforts. Selection of media including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, outdoor, direct mail, as well as specialized local media is covered. Students create television storyboards, radio commercials, and printmedia copy and layout. Elements of advertising campaigns are explored through student advertising agencies established to handle real-world advertising assignments. Course includes budgeting, advertising effectiveness studies, sales promotion, and public relations. 
238	An analysis of the development, organization and functions of American Political Parties. The course examines political parties as organizations, the party in the electorate and the party in government.  Particular attention is paid to how well political parties perform the linkage role between the American people's preferences and the content of govern- mental policy decisions. Students should have a working knowledge of American government.
239	Film has mass appeal and is readily accessible to most people, giving them a scope of influence few other media have. In this course we will treat films as texts (a text being a coherent, delimited, comprehensible structure of meaning) subject to interpretation in terms of political theory. In particular, we will read these texts for what they say about the politics of the human in local and global situations.
240	The course will explore the relationship between animal be- havior, ecology and evolution. We will examine how animals behave under specific ecological conditions and ask why such behavior evolved. Topics of particular interest include problems of finding living space, food, and mates; social interactions among individuals and groups; and the ways that behavior affects population size and location. One weekend field trip is planned. 
241	This course examines the short story as a distinct, culturally diverse literary genre. By reading a variety of short fiction, students will learn the history, the artistry, and the versatility of the genre. Special emphasis will be given to critical reading and writing skills.
242	The second introductory course in accounting focuses on the managerial aspect of accounting. The emphasis is placed on internal uses of accounting information to make managerial decisions. The coverage will include topics such as: cost volume profit analysis, cost behavior, activity based costing, short term decision making, in- come tax considerations, budgeting, responsibility accounting, performance measurement, and cost control.
243	This course is a literature/language course which will utilize the process of drama staging as an additional tool for learning language. It is not a performing arts class. The course will introduce students to an in-depth literary study of a selected Germanic drama, provide students with an opportunity to actively engage in the use of the German language in rewriting parts of the drama for production purposes, and enable students to stage the drama, which will not only drill language, but also facilitate the under- standing of drama as not only content but also form in performance space.
244	Advanced study in the area of investment management with the emphasis on analysis of modern portfolio theories and advanced investment strategies. This course takes a quantitative approach in the decision-making process and requires an oral and written presentation of computer based research projects.
245	This course begins with the Celtic invasion of Ireland and proceeds through the recent attempts to create a lasting peace settlement in Northern Ireland.  Along the way it examines the lasting influence of the Celtic, Viking, Norman, and English invasions of Ireland.  This course focuses on political, cultural, social, and religious history as a way of understanding the many factors that have shaped Irish history.  In addition, this course will address the relationship between Ireland and the Irish Diaspora. It discuss Ireland's changing place in the world, its role in the British Empire, and its participation in the European Union
246	The political, social, economic, and cultural history of the state of New York from the pre-Columbian era to the present. 
247	This academically oriented course will be taught in Spanish and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Spanish-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio- economic knowledge acquired in class and abroad.
248	This course is a continuation of the study of mathematical structures most frequently encountered in Computer Science. Topics covered include deterministic and non-deterministic finite automata, regular, context-free and other languages, push-down automata, grammars, Turing machines, computational complexity, and in particular the P vs. NP problem.
249	This course provides hands-on exploration for students to assist in the production of Siena College sporting events and programs aired over ESPN3.  Students will explore various shooting, editing, writing and production skills and techniques related to live sports productions and programming.
250	This course will explore the comic impulse in a range of literary genres and may include classical Greek modes, the Shakespearian tradition, as well as modern and contemporary versions. It will consider comedy in both of its typical meanings: (1) as a literary genre in which conflicts are successfully resolved through acts of reconciliation and harmony, and (2) as humor. The course will investigate the sometimes paradoxical relation between these two definitions. Some forms of comedy may not seem to us particularly funny, yet fulfill the traditional generic re- quirement of ending well. Other instances of the comic contain elements that make us laugh, but the overall effect may be distressing or disharmonious. The class will also consider comedy in relation to its traditional generic foil, tragedy, discovering perhaps a surprising number of connections between these two presumably opposite modes. While some discussions will focus on what comedy offers us in terms of understanding-or enduring-the human condition, the course will also examine the cultural and historical dynamics of comedy, including issues of economics and class, gender and sexuality, as well as race and region. Authors may include Aristophanes, Shakespeare, Austen, Wilde, and Heller. A number of films may also  be analyzed.
251	asks students to critique and analyze the methods and motives of other academic writers. Introducing students to basic rhetorical theories and concepts, this course is designed to help students to write effectively for the college academic community, which involves demonstrating critical reading, thinking, researching, and writing skills. The purpose of this course is to help students become familiar with the dominant conventions and expectations of academic argumentation and to assist them in writing persuasive academic prose.
252	This course applies practice knowledge, values, ethics, and skills to working with groups, organizations and communities.  Emphasis is placed on how diversity can influence work with these systems and on practice approaches and skills used to enhance people's well-being and ameliorate environmental conditions that adversely affect such systems.  The role of the social work practitioner in working with mezzo and macro systems is considered.
253	The most comprehensive and fundamental questions about reality are pursued in this course. Examples are the origin and makeup of the cosmos, the existence of such things as minds, God, freedom, evil, space, and time. The course explores concepts that philosophers, scientists, and theologians rely on to express their respective accounts of such enduring questions. These topics are pursued through both historical and contemporary readings.
254	This course introduces the Registered Nurse to evidence-based practice and the process required to translate and integrate research into their nurisng practice.  Emphasis is on critique and application of evidence affecting nurse-sensitive quality indicators. Published research studies are critically analyzed with regard to implications for clinical practice. Concepts reviewed include the scientific method, the research process, the use of informatics for a literature search, qualitative and quantitative research methodology, research ethics and quality improvement.  QSEN competencies are integrated throughout this course.  Students will discuss the links between quality improvement, evidence based practice and moving patient care to quality outcomes.
255	A course that serves as an introduction to the basic principles of forensic science. The purpose of this course is to provide students with an understanding of forensic science by examining the current techniques and instrumentations that are commonly used to analyze chemical, physical and biological evidence.  This course will cover the basic science (chemistry, physics and biology) that is required to understand these analytical techniques, but assumes no prior science background from the students. In addition, this course will examine the societal impact brought about by the advance forensic science in various aspects of American society, including law, culture and media.
256	The lectures will cover organism structure and function in terms of mechanical principles. The course will focus on biological examples to introduce the basics of fluid and solid mechanics with topics including properties of biological materials, muscle function, and terrestrial, aquatic, and aerial locomotion. The laboratory will provide students with hands on experience using fundamental biomechanical techniques to study both human and other organismal subjects.
257	A survey course designed to give an overview of the various investment vehicles, including fixed income securities, equity related securities, and leveraged investments. The course also includes theories of valuation, risk, and a basic understanding of the securities markets. This course requires computer-enhanced written presentations of research projects.
258	An introduction to modern physics.  Relativistic dynamics, particle apects of electromagnetic radiation, the wave aspects of material particles, the many-electron atom and nuclear structure are considered.  The laboratory includes many of the classical experiments which led to the discovery of the quantam mechanics.
259	This course will examine the American War in Vietnam (1965-1975) through major literary works written by both American and Vietnamese authors.  Emphasis is placed on situating the literature within the historical context.
260	This course is an historical survey of African American literature which introduces students to a broad range of significant writers in the genre of poetry, prose, autobiography, fiction, fiction and drama.
261	This course is designed to give a firm background in classical animal embryology, as well as to introduce current questions of developmental biology at cellular, tissue, and organismal levels. Topics include gametogenesis, fertiliza- tion, early development and organogenesis.
262	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing scenery for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to create scene renderings, elevations, models and working drawings based on the interpretation of a theatrical script. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. 
263	The cellular basis of the humoral and cell mediated immune response will be covered with emphasis on the mechanisms of cell cooperation. Topics covered are: lymphocyte popula- tions, the role of the machrophage, immunoglobulin synthesis and the generation of diversity, the genetics of the immune response and the role of the major histocompatibility com- plex, the complement system and the development of hypersensitivities.
264	A study in English of the masterpieces of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, through a close reading of individual works of the tragedians and the fruits of modern scholarship.  Among the subjects treated will be the history and origins of Greek tragedy, the physical space of the ancient theater, aspects of performance (the tragic mask, acting techniques, etc.), the location of individual play within their historical context, and the later influence of these plays.
265	This course offers students practice in critical thinking, reading, responding to, and analyzing a wide variety of literature. Because the course is writing-intensive, students will gain experience in writing and revising critical essays about literature. Readings will include literature from diverse classic and contemporary authors, as well as various literary genres.
266	Environmental Chemistry, is the study of natural and anthropogenic substances in the environment. Specifically, the course will cover the source, transport, reactions, effects and fate of chemicals in the atmosphere, hydrosphere and lithosphere. The course will also examine the distribution and interaction of chemical substances these three spheres.
267	An in-depth study of the principles and objectives of the techniques and theories used in managerial accounting. Topics such as capital budgeting; variance analysis; cost allocation; management control systems and quantitative techniques for planning and control will be discussed.
268	An intermediate level studio course exploring the practice, history, and theory of three-dimensional design. Students will study the Elements of Art and Principles of Design, and their use throughout the history of visual art and in contemporary visual material.
269	This course covers the valuation and risk assessment of a wide variety of fixed income securities and fixed income portfolios.  Fixed income securities are financial claims including pure discount bonds, coupon bonds such as Treasury notes and corporate bonds, floating rate notes, callable bonds, among many others, issued by public or private entities.  Fixed income risk consists of interest rate risk and other risks such as credit risk, illiquidity risk, and the risks stemming from securization.  Students will (1) review CFA leval 1 material inherent to fixed income and (2) explore more advanced concepts such credit analysis, interest rates forecasting, and bond portfolio management.
270	This course extends the concepts introduced in and introduces new topics important to the software engineering profession such as secure coding, ethics, intellectual property, copyright, cloud computing, and software maintenance. Students continue to work in teams to complete the software applications started in
271	An introduction to the chemical processes that occur in water, air, and soil, and the effects of pollutants on these processes. Consumption of and reliance on limited natural resources will be studied, along with emerging alternative energy sources.  The laboratory will emphasize environmental sample collection and preparation, and analysis of these samples by both wet chemical methods and instrumental analysis.
272	This course will introduce students to the creative arts as whole through the interaction between experiments in creative action and critical analysis. Fundamental questions about the nature of art and creativity, the art worlds and ethical dimensions, and the relation between the arts and society will be initiated. For each theoretical component of the course, there is a complementary creative exercise.
273	This course completes the coverage of mathematical techniques for business situations, introducing additional mathematical techniques including applied calculus. The topics covered include nonlinear models, derivatives, graphing and optimization with derivatives, and integration. A graphics calculator is required: the TI-83 or TI calculator is recommended.
274	A study of elementary ordinary differential equations, including first order equations and linear homogeneous and non-homogeneous equations of higher order.  Applications of differential equations are emphasized throughout the course.  Standard solution techniques, including the Laplace transform, are introduced.
275	This six-hour workshop is designed to provide the student with knowledge of the definition of abuse, maltreatment, and neglect according to NYS Family Court Act and Social Services Law; situations requiring reporting of suspected cases of child abuse maltreatment; a description of what constitutes reasonable cause to suspect child abuse or mal- treatment; proper procedure for making a report of suspected child abuse; actions mandated reporters may take to protect a child in addition to filing a child abuse report; legal responsibilities in reporting that teachers have as care providers; legal protections afforded reporters and consequences for failing to report; distinctions among various behavioral and physical characteristics of abusive parents and caretakers; physical and behavioral indicators of physical abuse, maltreatment, and neglect; contrast between physical and behavioral indicators of sexual abuse; child abduction; and general principles for interviewing or interacting with child victims.  The worshop also provides the training in School Violence Prevention and Intervention.
276	This course introduces students to English language prose, poetry, and other diverse forms of cultural expression of the Romantic, Victorian, Modern, and Contemporary periods. Students will analyze these works in the context of social, historical, and political changes that affected English and Anglophone literary production after the close of the eighteenth century.
277	A study of popular goddesses from the east and the west in their specific cultural and historical settings, with considerable attention to Indian goddesses. Explores iconographies, texts, and worship practices of several goddesses belonging to diverse religious traditions including Hinduism, Buddihism, Jainism, and ancient Greek religions. Introduces interpretive strategies in goddess scholarship from comparative and feminist frameworks.
278	Fundamental concepts used in machine implementation of processes which imitate human cognition. Topics include knowledge representation, logical deduction and problem solving, computational linguistics and machine learning. Students will complete several programming projects in these areas.  Current literature and research will be discussed.
279	This intensive course develops and improves language skills as per ACTFL Standards: listening, speaking, reading, writing, and cultural literacy. Along with reviewing the grammar that will be covered from the text, students will practice listening and speaking skills through several short oral projects, participate in ongoing conversation in class, listen to music, view film clips, and read websites from Spanish-speaking countries.  Students will gain a better understanding of the language system and sharpen skills to get involved in real communication.  Students will develop reading and writing skills through short compositions and exercises and cultural competency by continued emphasis on cultural, historical, socio-political realities of the Spanish- speaking countries.  To accomplish these objectives, the instructor will implement a communication-based methodology that requires active student participation in class and previous preparation for each class.
280	An introduction to the basic principles and perspectives of sociology through examination of social theme selected by the instructor. Themes reflect a particular intellectual interest or focus of research of the faculty member. Examples of potential themes include but are not limited to: global warming, business and corporate social responsibility race and racism, sex and gender, hate groups, the 1960s, social problems, state and democracy, civic engagement, health and illness, and so forth.
281	This course examines the nature and extent of poverty in the United States from an economist's point of view. Special consideration is given to the antipoverty effects of existing and proposed government programs and policies.  Competing theories of poverty and alternative approaches to research on poverty are investigated.
282	A survey of the synthetic theory of organic evolution. Major topics include: historical development of evolutionary thought, population genetics, speciation mechanisms, and adaptation. Basic evolutionary theory will be complemented with a review of empirical evidence relating to the evolu- tionary processes in both natural and experimental populations. Topics in human evolution will be covered which include: the origin of man, evolution of bipedalism, and tool use.
283	The objective of this course is to expose students to the intricacies of the State Judicial Process by blending selected readings and participation in seminar sessions with hands-on participation in the 3rd Judicial District of State Supreme Court. Students will serve as Judicial Process Interns and perform duties and responsibilities as determined by their State Supreme Court sponsors. Students will serve 120 to 150 hours during the semester. Students will be graded based upon joint evaluation by the judicial sponsor and internship professor.
284	A study of the political, social, economic, and intellectual currents of modern America and its developing role in world affairs.
285	A continuation of an introduction to visual- gestural language.  Contains the comprehensive numbers, classifiers and grammatical structures.  The skill development of conversation and storytelling is emphasized.
286	An introduction to philosophy focusing on various themes pertaining to human existence. The subjects treated include knowledge, community, beauty, love, freedom, justice. Also, examined are questions concerning body and the soul, the meaning of life and death, and the individual's relation to God. the figure of socrates is prominent, but philosophers from a varity of historical periods and traditions are also studied.
287	The decisions made in international relations today affect the childhood experiences of the next generation of leaders and hence will greatly shape how the world will react to im- pending issues dealing with war and prosperity.  This course examines both the impact of war and work on children and discusses and evaluates various policies for dealing with children in these situaions.
288	Wave-particle duality and Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Basic postulates of quantum mechanics, Schrodinger equation and wave functions, solution of the Schrodinger equation for one-dimensional systems and for the hydrogen atom. Perturbation theory, operator formalism, matrix mechanics.
289	This course will examine literary works written primarily during the 1920s, a period of intense cultural freedom as well as restraint within the United States. On the one hand, this was the heyday of flappers and speakeasies; on the other hand, the Jazz Age was darkened by the historical trauma of the First World War as well as the economic hardships of The Crash of 1929 and the impending Great Depression. We will discuss the contributions of the Lost Generation of American expatriate authors in Paris and witness the cultural flowering of the Harlem Renaissance. Readings may include fiction by Willa Cather, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway, and William Faulkner; poetry by Gertrude Stein, T.S. Eliot, Countee Cullen, Langston Hughes, and e.e. cummings; and drama by Eugene O'Neill. To give a fuller sense of both the era and its literature, we may also explore other cultural media of the Roaring Twenties, such as experimental painting, silent film, blues music, and of course jazz.
290	This advanced special topics course explores literature and/or film and critical theory on a broad range of topics from the Spanish-speaking world. This course may be taken more than once with different content and it is intended for the advanced student in Spanish
291	This course will examine the evolution of terrorism, its causes, perpetrators, and methods.  It will also evaluate the various national and international methods used for dealing with terrorism.
292	An upper level course which gives students the opportunity for theoretical analysis and practical application in understanding the relationship between respect for people, performance dimensions, motivation and work behavior. This will be accomplished by studying theories of workplace motivation, methods of performance appraisals and asessing human behavior at work. The course will review current research methodologies, and uses of performance appraisal: goal setting theories; determinants of goal commitment; and the motivation- performance relationship.
293	A study of the course of black history in the United States, including migration to English America, slavery, emancipation, segregation, rise of organized protest movements, and the civil rights revolution, as well as a consideration of the influence of blacks upon various phases of American political, social, economic, and intellectual development.
294	An examination of problems in medical ethics that are particulary urgent at the present time, such as: models for health care, human experimentation, organ transplantation, care for the dying, euthanasia, genetic engineering, artificial insemination, sterilization, behavior control, allocation of scarce medical resources, and health care delivery. Readings include a diversity of theologians, philosophers, social scientists, lawyers, historians, scientists, and physicians.
295	Students complete 200 hours of field experience in an approved, supervised social service organization that prepares them for generalist practice.  Students attend a two-hour, weekly integrative seminar on campus to explore practice and professional development issues related to academic and community-based field learning.  A one-time, on-line child abuse and neglect training is also required.
296	This course introduces students to fundamental economic concepts and theory, including demand, supply, and the formation of equilibrium prices in product and resource markets. In addition, the course offers an introduction to applied fields such as industrial organization (market structures), labor economics, unionism, international trade, and market failure.
297	An introduction to the Bible, using the tools of contemporary biblical scholarship, including literary and historical criticism, archaeology, and philology. The course will examine the history of the biblical text and the biblical canon, the relationship between the Bible and its companion literatures, and the ways in which biblical texts are interpreted by different Christian and Jewish religious communities.
298	This course provides a foundation in computer hardware organization including: a brief survey of historical develop- ments in computer hardware, a contrast of computer architectures and their implementation, and numbering systems. Also covered are fundamentals of logic design with application to the design of basic computer elements such as counters, adders, decoders, design of instruction timing sequences, register structure, addressing techniques and microcomputers.
299	This course will look at U.S. history in the decades following the last World War, examining politics, culture, economics, and society from the Cold War to the rise of the internet.
300	This course is designed to develop the student's understand- ing of the structure and function of our banking system and the role of monetary policy in determining economic activity. Topics included are: the nature of money, the term structure of interest rates, the regulation of commercial bank activity, and the macro-monetary models used to predict future ecomomic conditions.
301	The objective of the course, exposure to the intricacies of the legislative process, is achieved by a blend of selected readings and participation in the New York State Legislature or not-for-profit organization dealing in advocacy or legislation.  Students will serve as interns working 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilities as determined by the legislator/supervisor in consultation with the faculty director.  Students will be graded based upon joint evaluation of the legislator/ supervisor and internship professor.  Students placed in the Community Policy Institute program will attend a scheduled weekly class.
302	The function of endocrine secretions in vertebrates. Topics will include (1) evolution of hormone structure and function (2) secretion and transport of hormones, and (3) hormonal regulation of carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism, water and mineral balance, growth, and reproduction.
303	Students are acquainted with the process of actor training and character development through workshop discussion, and attendance at professional and academic productions. Laboratory sessions are devoted to the preparation of scenes exploration of the actor's body and voice, and an examination of the student's ability to feel, to communi- cate, and to imagine. This course is designed for students with no previous acting experience or those with some experience, but no training. A field trip to a professional production is required.
304	This course provides traditional and alternative theories and paradigms pertaining to the individual as a human system and content on other human systems with which individuals interact (families, groups, organizations and communities). The course uses an assessment framework and an integrated body of knowledge and theory to provide students with an understanding of the bio-psycho- social-cultural-spiritual dimensions of human behavior. Emphasis is placed on how diversity enriches interactions among people and how social and economic conditions may affect the well-being of people. The course also covers how social and economic injustice can create at-risk potential for discrimination and oppression. Emphasis is placed on how to apply course content to consumer situations.
305	A survey of western European history between roughly 450 and 1350, tracing political, social, and cultural trends. This course will focus on the formation of an entity called Europe, distinct from its neighbors in the Byzantine and Arabic worlds, yet including non-Christians as an integral part of European history.
306	Treasury management focuses on methods and tools used to maintain corporate liquidity, optimize working capital and capital sturcture, and monitor and control corporate exposure to financial and operational risks including cross-border funds movements.  The course includes consideration of appropriate ethical behaviors and cororate governance issues.
307	This course, which accompanies clinical practice, is designed to address current issues and practices in literacy development in the content areas at the middle and high school levels, and assist prospective teachers in reflecting upon and improving their student teaching experience. Emphasis is on the responsibility of teachers of all subjects to create a literate environment in their classroom and to develop the literacy skills of students of all ability levels as well as of students who are English language learners. Specific instructional strategies will be explored that enable teachers to engage learners actively with course content, to enhance critical thinking skills and expression of ideas, to promote metacognitive skills and study skills, and to develop critical skills in evaluating sources of information. Special topics including the utilization of technology and assistive technology to further learning and working with students from diverse backgrounds and with differing abilities will be stressed.
308	Reading and analysis of texts of different genres, which will be selected primarily from the works of modern French authors.  In order to develop further the oral skills, class discussions will be conducted in French.
309	This course presents the taxation of corporations and its effects on their shareholders. Special tax provisions related to sub-chapter S corporations and partnerships and various aspects of IRS administration and tax practice are included. New York State taxation of corporations and partnerships will be integrated with the presentation.
310	Public Policy studies the actions or outputs of government and the goals and intentions that motivate them. In the late 20th century, government has grown to the extent that virtually every individual, in every aspect of life, is affected by government choices. In this course, we will discuss the process of making public policy primarily by examining major substantive policy areas. From this study, we will be able to identify patterns in policy making as a whole. 
311	The study of Russian grammar and vocabulary is continued. At this level both spoken language and reading are stressed.
312	European philosophy of the early modern period. Main figures are Descartes, Locke, Hume, Leibniz, and Kant.
313	U.S. Business HIstory examines the historical development of business in the United States from the colonial era to the early twenty-first century. Students will consider the intersections of business, economy, government, labor, law, education, culture, religion, and politics, and will be encouraged to develop their own response to the consequences of American enterprise, from labor exploitation and monopoly power to strong property rights and a high standard of living,
314	This covers basic concepts in chemical kinetics. A central theme is the understanding of rates of chemical reactions, and what they tell us about chemical reactions. This in- cludes: determination of rate laws, the use of rate laws to derive reaction mechanism, and the extrapolation of kinetic data to explore molecular dynamics. Ab Inition calculation of transition state structure and properties will be discussed.
315	A study in English of the Greco-Roman myths that treat the origin of the world, the generations of the gods, the creation of the human race, and the relationship between mortals and immortals.  Also examined will be ancient notions of worship, including the importance of sacrifice and mystery cults.  Different, contemporary, theoretical perspectives will be employed to interpret the meaning conveyed by these stories both for the ancients and for the modern world and to evaluate their force in the development of Greek and Roman culture, literature, and art and their subsequent influence on later peoples.
316	The Washington Journalism Semester provides a seminar which offers an intensive scrutiny of the gathering and presenta- tion of news.  Reporters, news executives, news sources, and others share their ideas and experiences.  Students study the workings of large and small newspapers and broadcast news bureaus.  Meetings are generally four to six times per week and may be held at field sites as well as on campus.
317	This class investigates the concepts of community, social justice, change and development in and through community-based consulting projects with nonprofit organizations.  This course examines the role business consulting plays in addressing pressing nonprofit organizational needs.
318	The course examines the history of metropolitan government, from machine politics to reform politics and current governing trends regarding regionalism and privatization.  In addition, the course examines policy and ethical issues that racial and economic equality and urban sprawl.
319	There will be a case study examination of its historic de- velopment in economic, security, and cultural involvement from isolation to globalism.
320	This course provides a forum for observing, analyzing, discussing and writing about the aesthetics of film. This course also teaches the basics of film criticism and reveals how film criticism affects the making and remaking of film as genre.
321	Students are acquainted with the process of acting for media that utilize the camera as a principal delivery system through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional film and broadcast work. Laboratory sessions are devoted to exercises, the preparation of scenes, scenarios and journalistic reports and the exploration of technical skills. This course is designed for students with no previous camera acting or broadcast journalism experience or those with some experience but no training.
322	In this course, each student will be required to read a variety of texts representing contrasting educational philosophies.  The purpose of the course is to promote awareness of the existence of numerous philosophies of education, to demonstrate the practical educational implica- tions derived from each theory, and to assist each student in the formulation of an educational philosophy suitable to the needs of his/her professional and/or personal life.
323	A survey of the history, development and structure of the religious traditions of Buddhism including the Theravada, Mahayana, Tibetan and Zen traditions. The religious experience of Buddhists and its impact on the cultures of India, Central Asia, China and Japan are examined. In addition attention is paid to the growing presence of Buddhism in Europe and the United States.
324	This course is designed for those students who may be interested in working in service industries and in addressing the distinct needs and challenges of managing services and delivering quality service to customers. The course will build and expand on ideas from other Marketing courses to make them specifically applicable to service industry settings. Focus will be on the variety of service providers including banking, hospitality, transportation, health care, entertainment, education, insurance and real estate, and other professional services.  The customer service function in traditional production- based organizations will also be included.
325	A study of selected contemporary French language films (subtitled) with focus on the films' artistic expression and psychological, social, historical and cultural content. Course taught in English.
326	A general survey of the uniform commercial code. Sales: passing of title, risk of loss, financing and security interests, bailments, and carriers. Commercial Paper: negotiation and assignment, holders in due course, defenses, banks, debtor-creditor, and bankruptcy. Property: real and personal, transfers, and financing.
327	This course is designed to introduce students to the basic scientific methods, tools and techniques needed to under- stand and analyze environmental issues. Topics covered in- clude ecosystem structure and function, population dynamics and regulation, resources and resource management, and pollution. The laboratory will include projects dealing with current environmental issues, and will emphasize hypothesis testing, data collection and analysis, and oral and written presentations. Several field trips (including one weekend trip) will introduce students to local ecosystems and to local environmental issues.
328	This course introduces students to the tradition of nature writing in literature, with an emphasis on American authors. Thoreau's Walden is a central text. Particiular attention is given to contemporary multicultural voices among environ- mental writers. The course emphasizes nonfiction prose but includes some poetry and fiction.
329	Criminalistics is a branch of forensic science that involves the recognition, identification, individualization, evaluation and reconstruction of 'physical evidence. The purpose of this one-semester, laboratory-based course is to acquaint the student with the philosophy and methodology of dealing with physical evidence in a gereral way.  No attempt will be made to provide the student with all the techniques he or she will need to know to work in a forensic science laboratory.  Instead, the general approach is designed to give the student a sound, fundamental base upon which to build.  The laboratory aspect of this course will consist mainly of work on unknowns designed to simulate physical evidence problems and to stimulate thinking about them. Select pieces of SAInT Center instrumentation will be introduced.  The lecture part of the course will provide much of the theoretical knowledge required to complete the exercises.  There are no prerequisites, but it is suggested that the student be familiar with high-school mathematics (algebra, geometry, and trigonometry).
330	This survey examines the peoples, ideas, and institutions that have shaped U.S.foreign relations from the American Revolution to the end of World War I. The course takes a broad view of foreign relations to include interstate diplomacy and economic, social, and cultural interactions among individuals, institutions, and non-governmental organizations. 
331	A broad treatment of labor-management relations in both the private and public sectors. The course will encompass: the historical development of the labor movement; modern society and industrial relations; management philosophy regarding employee relations and organized labor; labor legislation and its social economic, and political impact; collective bargaining, its scope and process; contract administration principles and practices; and labor relations issues and trends. Major emphasis will be placed on: the How-to and Experimental activities via projects, case studies, professional and practitioner speakers, and so forth.
332	Newtonian mechanics of particles and systems of particles, including rigid bodies.  Topics include vector analysis, potential theory, central forces, the two-body problem, collisions, oscillatory phenomena, moving reference frames. Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulation of classical mechanics.  Theory of small vibrations. Four hours of lecture a week for one semester.
333	The course examines the role that human differences such as race, ethnicity, gender, disabilities, sexual orientation, and class have in the philosophical conception of the human being from ancient to modern times. Among the themes that may be studies are master and slave, human and inhuman, being and non-being, the visible and the invisible, whitenes and darkness, male and female, the normal and the perverse. The course also wrestles with contemporary criticisms of binary thinking that divides the human family into an us and an other.
334	This course is a broad introduction to a variety of fundamental topics in computer science through a contemporary theme such as robotics, the web, graphics, or gaming. Students will consider problems in the application area that can be solved with software. Using the theme of the course, students will be introduced to important areas of computer science including abstraction, computer organization, representation of information, history of computing, ethics, and the development and evaluation of algorithmic solutions using an appropriate programming environment. Themes may differ across sections.
335	An interdisciplinary investigation and analysis of theories principles, and practices of human resources management. The contents encompass: viewing organizations and human resources as inter-related systems; a review of human resources functions and programs; staffing the organization and its various components; human resouces training and development; the role and impact of the work environment on employees, management, and the organization; the development and role of employee relations; and kinds and importance of remuneration and security programs.
336	This course is designed for students who have taken advanced placement biology in high school and achieved a score of 4 or higher on the AP exam. Topics include evolution, classification, and diversity.
337	Health psychology is a basic research and clinical practice area within psychology that focuses on understanding the scientific relationships between social, behavioral, and psychological processes and health.  Topics will include health beliefs and health-enhancing behaviors, the effects of stress and coping on illness and disease recovery, adjustment to chronic or terminal illnesses, and clinical interventions such as pain management, behavioral management of diseases like HIV-spectrum illness and cancer, the re- lationship between the health care provider and patient, and cross-gender and cross-cultural variations in prevention and development of disease and in the factors related to positive coping with illness.
338	The course focuses principally on officership, providing an extensive examination of the unique purpose, roles, and obligations of commissioned officers. It includes a detailed look at the origin of the Army's institutional values and their practical application in decision making and leader- ship. Students examine the challenges of leading teams in a complex, combat operational environment.  The couse highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, infantry patrols, and operation orders. Further study of the theoretical basis of the Army Leadership Requirements Model explores the dynamics of adaptive leadership in the context of military operations. This course draws on the various components of values, communications, decision making, and leadership together to focus on a career as a commissioned officer. Upon completion of this course, students should possess a fundamental understanding of both leadership and officership and demonstrate the ability to apply this understanding in real world situations. 
339	Modern conservation biology employs an integrative approach to biodiversity protection and management using priciples and experiences from ecology, natural resource management, and the social sciences. Topics include biological diversity, valuation systems, adaptation and extinction, minimum viable populations, management of invasive and endangered species, and the design of nature preserves. Lab and field problem-solving exercises focus on population size, habitat fragmentation, and restoration ecology.
340	A chronological study of the development of the drama from Cervantes to Calderon.
341	This course will introduce students to the vocabulary, interpretive strategies and collaborative processes essential to developing their own ideas of inter- relationships among various disciplines in the creative arts.  Attendance at arts events outside of class is required. 
342	This course examines the relationship between, and the making of sex and gender. It tackles the question of how we are and become sexual beings, and critically explores the fluid boundary between the biological and the social. Is gender a cultural construction? Or are there essential differences between women and men; ones that we should embrace rather than reject? if gender is made, can it be unmade? Are there two or multiple genders? Is our gender located in the body or is it psychological? Major historical figures as well as contemporary feminist philosophers will be studied. Examples from film and media may be used to stimulate discussion.
343	Course objectives are to survey and develop numerical methods for solving scientific problems.  Topics covered are roots of linear and nonlinear systems, numerical integration approximation, interpolation, and ordinary differential equations.  The course will emphasize efficient computer implementation of numerical algorithms.
344	An introduction to the discipling of Religious Studies through an examination of the nature of religious experience, its relation to human understandings of the Sacred, and its expressions in human history and culture. These themes will be concretely illustrated through examples drawn from such religious traditions as Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism and Confucianism. Contemporary forms of religious experience will be emphasized.
345	Financial data is increasing in both volume and complexity.  This course examines how statistical and probability methods are used to analyze and understand financial data.  Students will learn to develop and evaluate analytical models of financial data from simple regression to more complex techniques.  Students will also learn how to effectively communicate the results and recommendations from these models.
346	This course is designed to prepare the student for transition into the role of the registered professional nurse.  The student will be prepared to work effectively within organizations by demonstrating core skills of leadership and management, managing resources responsibly, supporting safe quality care and utilizing evidence-based practice.  The clinical component will focus on managing care for small groups of patients while collaborating with the multidisciplinary team, and will identify strategies to promote the safe transition of patients across care settings.  The student will exhibit the ability to move effectively into the professional nurse role abiding by the American Nurse Associated Registered Nurse Scope of Practice and the New York State Nurse Practice Act. 
347	This course surveys the cultures and societies of a specified region of the world (Asia, South Asia, Africa, The Middle East, South America, The Caribbean, Australasia, etc.). It covers the major institutional sectors (such as family, education, religion, politics, etc.) and social processes (such as urbanization and economic development). It also examines internal and external forces of social change in these societies.
348	This course provides an introduction to the specialty knowledge of Gerontologic nursing.  Concepts include physical and mental aging, increased complexity of care utilization of healthcare resources and interactions between acute and chronic co-morbidities.  Models of care to manage life transitions, physical changes, end of life care (palliative and hospice) and spirituality will be discussed.  A focus on the role of the caring nurse in utilizing resources and programs to promote functional, physical, mental wellness in older adults is emphasized.  Community Service requrement with a geriatric community is the culminating component of this course pulling together concepts of both caring and advocating for this population.
349	The study of Supreme Court decisions affecting the rights of the criminal accused under the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments to the Bill of Rights.  The case law approach is used. 
350	This course focuses on the development of marketing strategies targeted at organizations, including businesses, institutions, not-for-profit organizations, and governmental agencies. The focus will be on identifying the unique differences between organizational and consumer buying behavior, with an assessment of the impact on strategy decisions. The course will also address principles, techniques, and strategies that are utilized by purchasing and materials management professionals in the organi- zation procurement process.
351	A survey of Russian history from the reign of Ivan III (1462-1505) to the 20th century.
352	provide life science students with a foundation in calculus based mathematics. covers the concepts of limit and derivative in depth and also includes the idea of the definite integral.  These concepts provide tools to understand the behavior of the elementary algebraic and transcendental functions. There is a strong emphasis in this course on the applications of calculus to the biological sciences. 
353	This course will examine the critical role of human resource management in achieving an organizations's strategic objectives.  Emphasis will be placed on techniques for developing a holistic, integrated approach towards the various human resource functions aligned with the organizations's strategy, and comparison and contrast with traditional human resource management models.
354	An advanced level studio course in which students explore chromatic, spatial, and perceptual complexities of painting. Students will inquire into the purpose of painting and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Students will apply contemporary art theory to create and critique their own portfolio of work.
355	An examination of the ancient cultures of Palestine from Neolithic times to early days of the Christian church. studies both the material culture of Palestine as uncovered in excavations and also the nature (and limits) of new archaeological methods. Biblical Archaeology also probes the relationship between text (the Bible and ancient inscriptions) and these material remains. The course will investigate the religion of Israel as can be deduced from excavations but will place that religion in the broader context of the entire culture of Israel and of the ancient Near East.
356	The study of Late Antiquity will investigate the fundamental period of transition from the classical to medieval world as it was experienced across the Mediterranean. Spanning the crises of the Late Roman Empire to its disintegration, it will encompass diverse areas of inquiry: the establish- ment of Christianity with the Roman Empire; the barbar- ian migrations and the ensuing destabilization of the Roman Empire in the west , the emergence of the papacy and the rise of the Frankish king, Charlemagne as a new emperor; the continuity of the Roman Empire in the east through the successors of Augustus who ruled the Byzantine Empire from Constantinople; the emergence of the Islamic caliphate and the founding of Bagdad.
357	This course offers students an opportunity to examine literary theory in detail and to apply it to selected texts. Students may study a range of critical approaches, such as New Historicism, Postcolonial theory, and Cultural Studies.
358	This course examines the actions of psychoactive drugs on brain and behavior. Drugs of abuse and psychotherapeutic drugs are given about equal emphasis. Drug use as a social problem is examined in historical and current perspectives, covering substances such as narcotics, stimulants, hallucin- ogens, marijuana, and alcohol. Drugs of abuse are examined with regard to their mechanisms of action, effects on the body and on behavior. Addition and treatment approaches are examined from multiple perspectives. Medicines for psycho- logical disorders (affective, anxiety, schizophrenia) are studies by examining the mechanisms of drug action on the brain; major and minor tranquilizers and antidepressant medications are covered. Also discussed are non-drug drugs caffeine and nicotine.
359	An examination of the person and teachings of Paul as these are reflected in his letters, with consideration of how Paul's contributions were developed by subsequent generations of Christians in such works as the Pastoral Epistles, the Book of Acts, and other early Christian literature.
360	a writing course that focuses on rhetorical theory in popular culture, such as the role of context, audience, and purpose in the creation of written and visual arguments.  Students employ the language of rhetorical analysis in locating and critiquing argumentative trends found within hip-hop music, movies, fashion, and other observable aspects of hip-hop identity.
361	This course completes the calculus of elementary transcendental functions. It also includes techniques of integration, indeterminate forms, L'Hospital's Rule, improper integrals, and introduction to sequences, infinite series and power series. Students apply concepts to work, volume, arc length, and other physical phenomena. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to beginning this course.
362	The course will consider the politics, culture, economics, and society of the United States from the end of World War I, through the 1920s, the Great Depression, and the Second World War.
363	Morphology of cells, tissues, and organs with emphasis on the relationship of structure to function at each level of organization. Laboratory includes the study of electron micrographs of cells, histological slides of tissues and organs, and the preparation of slides.
364	The purpose of the Financial Plan Development course is to require the financial planning student to demonstrate the ability to integrate and apply his or her knowledge of financial planning topics, as received through the financial planning curriculum. The course provides the opportunity for students to apply the financial planning process to real-life situations, as well as their ability to communicate their planning recommendations to a client.
365	Through science and technology humans are creating a new world which will not only be decided by scientific knowledge but will depend on views about good and bad, right and wrong. This course may focus on a variety of different topics, areas, or issues, such as nanotechnology, climate change, military or repro- ductive technologies; but all courses will closely examine some scientific change or field and its consequences from the perspectives of philosophical ethics.
366	This course completes the Calculus sequence. The topics covered are vectors in the plane and in a three dimensional space, functions of several variables, partial differentiation, the chain rules, multiple integration including cylindrical and spherical coordinate systems and the theorems of Green and Stokes. Students apply these concepts to physical applications.
367	A survey of American music from the seventeenth century to the present. Attention will be given to the contributions of the early setlers, the influence of folk traditions, the contributions of ethnic and minority groups, and the major lines of development in symphonic music.
368	An intermediate-level examination of Classical and Keynesian models of income determination, post-Keynesian thought and the Monetarist alternative, and the problems of inflation, employment, and growth.
369	This course will examine the common body of knowledge needed by internal auditors. Emphasis is placed on the tools and techniques used to assess the economy, efficiency, effectiveness and results of management activity as they are used in government, not-for-profit agencies and the private sector.
370	This course will introduce students to sociological concepts and issues within contemporary family sociology. The intersections between the family and other social institutions will be a central component of this course. Diversity of families will be another central foundation for this course. Issues of privilege and inequality will be explored, as well as social justice as it pertains to families.
371	This course provides a broad historical study of the main trends and events in global history from 1500 to 1900.  It examines how patterns of interaction in the past have contributed to shaping historical change. Students will learn to understand and appreciate the important role of cross-cultural communication between the civilizations of the West and the rest of the World. They will examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless.  This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history.  Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy, and practice intercultural knowledge and respect.
372	This course is about what is seen and how we see by focusing on the power of visual representation. The course examines the production, circulation, and interpretation of the visual to reveal aspects of society operating on both the individual, social group/ organizational, societal, and global scales. Substantive questions are explored through individual and group projects engaged in social documentation (photography, video, and multimedia online). The course may visit the New York State Museum, examine urban spaces, advertisement, and watch ethnographic films.
373	By the mid-1st Century BCE, Rome had become the most powerful military and political force in the ancient world. At that time, Roman territory stretched from Spain in the west to lands bordering ancient Mesopotamia in the east. This empire had been won by Rome while under a republican form of government that had existed for over 400 years. How- ever, at the very point at which Roman power reached its zenith, its republican government collapsed, giving way to rule by Rome's first emperor, Augustus. In this course, we will study in detail the political and social conditions prevailed during this pivotal era in which Rome was trans- formed from a republic to a principate. In addition, we will study the literature, art, and architecture of the Augustan Age. A variety of resources will be including primary and secondary sources, together with slide presentations.
374	This course describes the interdisciplinary field that unites inorganic chemistry and biochemistry by examining the various roles of metal ions in biological systems - from mechanistic to medicinal uses.  It applies fundamental principles of inorganic chemistry (particularly transition metal coordination chemistry) to an understanding of the structure and function of biological macromolecules.  Physical methods and instrumentation commonly employed by bioinorganic chemists are also discussed.  Using a developed understanding of inorganic chemistry and biochemistry, literature papers on topics of current importance to the bioinorganic community will be discussed. 
375	This course surveys the development of Asian American literature within the context of different Asian and Asian American Cultural and historical traditions, and dominant American literary, racial, and political discourses. Students will read a wide array of literary, theoretical, and critical works by Asian American writers.
376	This course demonstrates the evolution of major themes in French literature in all genres from their origins to the beginnings of modern times.
377	This course provides a broad historical study of the main trends and events in global history from the rise of civilization in the Near East to the Italian Renaissance. It examines how patterns of interaction in the past have contributed to shaping historical change.  Students will learn to understand and appreciate the important role of cross-cultural communication between the civilizations of the West and the rest of the World. They will examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless.  This course also introduces students to the discipline and methodologies of history.  Students will engage with enduring questions of human concern, demonstrate competence in historical literacy and practice inter-cultural knowledge and respect.
378	Theories of personality including psychoanalytic, neo- analytic, trait, learning, and humanistic paradigms are examined and evaluated.
379	The introduction to some of the important issues in environmental science coupled with the basic mathematical ideas, tools and techniques necessary to grapple with them. Scientific topics may include climate change, fuel economy, X-ray detectability of lung cancer cell clusters, biodiversity, fertility rates in developing countries and spread of tropical diseases to new populations. To address these issues, measurement, parts per billion and other ratios, histograms, functions, and regression, as well as other mathematical topics will be considered. Each mathematical idea will be illustrated immediately with an environmental application.
380	This course surveys the canon of art history from the fifteenth to the twentieth centuries - a group of artworks that are widely recognized as of enduring importance in human history. Some, like Michelangelo's Sistine Ceiling are outstanding in their own right, others are examples of significant types, e.g. landscape paintings. All are studied in respect to the culture in which they were produced, and upon which they exerted influences. Included will be Leonardo da Vince, Rembrandt, the Impressionists, architecture such as Versailles and the Taj Mahal, as well as the major developments of the modern world.
381	In this course, students develop critical reading, writing and speaking skills.  Students accomplish this by reading short stories, poetry, plays and novels, working on vocabulary, analyzing the readings, writing essays and speaking in Spanish in class. Literary texts from the 14th to the 21st century are used as a tool for students to understand sociopolitical, historical, and cultural contexts of Spain and Latin America.
382	Time series data occur when describing trends or when tracking internal organizational pratices which may have internal structures such autocorrelation, seasonal variation, and cyclical trends.  Techniques for exploring this type of data include regression, autoregressive modeling, random walks, smoothing and decomposition of time series, and qualitative techniques.
383	This course introduces students to the history, practices, and principles of print and digital design. A variety of design projects from logos to websites focusing on composition, color theory, and typography provide students with the skills needed to communicate an idea using imagery and text effectively. With each project, we will improve our visual literacy by exploring the function of a fundamental design element through digital practices using essential software programs in the Adobe Creative Suite. Throughout the semester, students will develop a strong understanding of design theory and acquire the tools to explore their options within the field of visual art and design.
384	A general survey of the American labor force reveals the changing nature of work, changing labor force participating rates by age and sex, and the growing importance of minority representation.  Traditional labor market models of wage determination are supplemented by considerations of institutional constraints, employee benefits, and forms of wage discrimination.  Special topics include: types of unemployment, federal manpower programs, and the history of American trade unionism.
385	This course will examine the molecular mechanisms that control animal developmental processes. This will include a description of the genes and regulatory mechanisms that direct development in a range of animals, as well as the experimental basis for our understanding of these processes. The use of invertebrate model genetic organisms to identify conserved components and mechanisms of development will be highlighted.
386	The study of formal spoken and written modern Arabic: the writing system, pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, and composition with supplementary reading in the language. Introduction to cultural realities of the Arabic-speaking world. This course is for sudents with no prior study of Arabic.
387	An introduction to modern solid-state physics, including lattice structure, lattice vibrations, thermal properties, electron theory of metals and semiconductors, magnetic properties, and superconductivity.
388	This academically oriented course will be taught in German and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Germanic-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad.
389	This academically oriented course will be taught in Russian and consists of coursework followed by an intensive travel study component in Russia. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, student present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired abroad.
390	The Program Student Learning Outcomes, provide the framework for this course and units.  This course will require the student to analyze and apply a variety of high order concepts as they relate to the students current and future practice.  In this course students will continue to build upon the curriculum concepts by formulating a variety of responses, plans and scenarios demonstrating the student's ability to make sound, evidence-based clinical judgments.  It is the expectation that the student will be also be able to interconnect concepts and evaluate how concepts work together to make holistic patient- centered plans of care.  For this expectation, all of the concepts and exemplars will be included as part of the syllabus.  Students will detail ways to improve their future clinical decisions and exact changes in culture and policy in their future roles as Registered Professional Nurses. Students will utilize reflective writing to differentiate between the roles and responsibilities of the student nurse and the novice nurse, demonstrating a full understanding of their current and future roles and the expectations and responsibilities of those roles.  Course objectives will be met through a variety of required assignments including online discussion forums, individual writing assignments and concept mapping.
391	This course surveys Latino/a literature written in English.  Students will be introduced to Latino/a poetry, fiction, drama, and nonfiction prose.  Latino/a literature will be examined within the context of American literature, and as a unique literary movement. Attention will be given to historical and social contexts and their impacts upon Latino/a literary tradition.
392	This course will use peer evaluation and the traditional writing workshop to foster student skills in writing short fiction.  Students are required to distribute stories they have written to class for critique and group evaluation. The works of contemporary writers will be studied with an eye toward formal concerns and techniques.  Students will be introduced to the art of contemporary short fiction writing. 
393	Critical exploration of roles and techniques used by the individuals, publics, NGOs, governments and the corporate sector to further sustainable development in rural areas of developed and developing countries.  This course may include required travel abroad depending on the semester in which it is taught.
394	Students in this course will examine the relationship between education and society from a sociological perspective.  The course will examine the work of educational theorists over the last 100 years in an effort to understand the purpose of education and the various explanations for differential educational outcomes.  Specifically, the readings focus on the role that class, race, language and gender play in students educational experiences and outcomes.  By the end of the course, students will have increased their theoretical repertoire and will be able to analyze and discuss pattens of student achievement from a variety of perspectives.
395	This course is designed to expose students to the practice of political communication via an internship experience performing communications tasks for various governmental offices and agencies, political campaigns, campaign strategists, legislators, political candidates, political consulting, speechwriters, political advertising agencies, or lobbying firms. Students will serve as Political Communication interns working 120 to 150 hours during the semester performing duties and responsibilities as determined by the agency supervisor in consultation with the faculty director.  Students will be graded based upon the joint evaluation of the agency supervisor and the internship professor.
396	Robotics is a subfield of artificial intelligence that utilizes technology to complete tasks that humans would normally complete.  This course is an introduction to robotics, with an emphasis on mobile robots operating in human-scale environments.  Students will gain an understanding of the basic theory and practice of mobile robots and human-machine interaction.  Topics include: Robot Operating System (ROS), Open Source Computer Vision(OpenCV), Client/Server Communication, the Linux Operating System and the Python Programming Language.  Students will work in teams to implement a challenging robotic task.
397	The course will provide a basic background in chemical principles and processes in the context of their role in environmental issues. Topics to be discussed include ozone depletion, acid rain, global warming, and general uses and misuses of our natural resources. The goal of the course is to enable students as informed consumers to critically evaluate scientific issues which have a crucial impact on our world.
398	This course will give the prospective teacher sustained experience in the middle school classroom.  In addition to teaching, the student is expected to assume other pro- fessional responsibilities that are assigned to him/her by the cooperating teacher and/or principal.  It is expected that student teachers will gradually add teaching responsibilities and will assume a full teaching load.  The student will return to the College for scheduled classes or seminars with the College staff.  Note:  All students will be personally responsible for transportation arrangements.
399	This course explores the differentiating conditions in management associated with conducting business in multiple countries.  It examines several facets of the global business environment including differences across nations, global trade and investment, regional trade blocs, NGOs and supranational organizations, the global monetary system, strategy in international business, and international business functions. Emphasis will be placed on the practical and theoretical aspects of starting and/or running a global multinational firm.
400	This course is a study of the major compositions, composers, and the stylistic characteristics usually associated with each of the historical music periods starting from the Baroque. This course is also designed to broaden students' artistic horizons and to unlock their creative potential as they become familiar with familiar with current trends in the arts,
401	Forensic psychology is a cutting-edge interdisciplinary arena that spans the fields of psychology, sociology, law, criminal justice, and public policy, among others.  Forensic psychology unites various areas of clinical psychology, with its emphasis on psychopathology (e.g., the insanity defense) and psychological assessment (e.g., the use of assessment devices in determinations of competence and in child custody evaluations) and social psychology, with its body of literature on psychological phenomena salient to legal processes (e.g., interpersonal persuasion, the re- liability of memory in eyewitnesses, psychological factors relevant to jury selection, the detection of lying) with the theory and practice of law. As a profession, the sub-specialty of forensic psychology prepares psychologists to interact with the legal arena in a variety of roles, including expert witness, child custody evaluator, determiner of mental competence and dangerousness of criminal defendants, police psychologist, prison psychologist, and consultant to military, federal, state, and local law enforce- ment agencies.
402	This course will examine various components of the Criminal Justice System: law enforcement, courts and corrections. Students will adopt a critical approach to the understanding of crime and justice in America by looking at the intersection between race, class, and gender.
403	A study of the structure and function of nature with special emphasis on the impact of humans on natural systems. Topics included will be energy flow, nutrient cycles, population dynamics, and community ecology.
404	This course is intended to help the prospective teacher interact effectively in the social-learning environment that is established between student and teacher and among students in group and individualized settings. The focus is theoretical as well as applied. Emphasis is on establishing a foundation for making sound and informed educational decisions based on the body of knowledge that pertains to teaching and learning within the framework of human development. Differences between the middle school and high school populations will be explored. As an outcome of the course, the prospective teacher should be able to apply knowledge of the learner, the learning process, and the learning setting to create an environment that offers a diverse student population the greatest opportunity to learn. A twenty-hour field experience is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For students pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12).
405	Lectures cover in detail the natural history and ecology of plants with an emphasis on the communities of northeastern North America. Laboratories include field studies of local plants and two overnight weekend field trips to unique plant communities in the region.
406	Using the aging process in the United States as a beginning point, this  course transcends national borders to explore aging in a variety of nations, delineated primarily by their economic level of development. Aging populations in these countries are examined on a multiplicity of levels that include demographic changes, health characteristics, family relationships as well as the economic and political implications of this process on the larger society.
407	This course is a survey of the ethical issues involved in computing.  Topics studied will include data access, privacy, security, hacking, copyright and intellectual property issues, email, etc.  The focus will be on identifying and analyzing ethical problems related to computing, as well as on ways to foster ethical decision- making in computing-centered situations.
408	Much of the mathematics which impinges on everyday life is of the finite variety. This course will introduce students to topics from Number Theory, Combinatorics, Complexity Theory, Difference Equations, Game Theory, Geometry, Graph Theory, Information Theory, Group Theory, Logic, Probability and Simple Descriptive Statistics, and Set Theory. Prefer- ence will be given to topics which convey to the student the prevalence of finite mathematics in modern society, with applications which are accessible to student experimentation
409	European philosophy of the 19th century. Main figures are Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche. Typical questions pertain to the role of history in shaping our self- understanding in science, religion, and politics; and the emergence of radical critiques of modern culture.
410	An advanced management course designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of organizational development and change.  Emphasis will be on understanding change, how change impacts both individuals and organizations, how best to manage the change process, and the primary individual group, and organizational level interventions commonly used  in organizations to enhance performance.
411	A study, using a variety of methods and differing kinds of materials including tragedies, comedies, lyric poetry, historical writings, lawcourt speeches, funeral stele, vase and fresco paintings, sculpture, medical treatises, etc., to recover as clear a reflection of the feminine voice from the Greco-Roman past as possible and to understand not only the role or position of women in antiquity, but the very meaning of woman for the ancients.  Among the  works by women writers that are extant we may include the poets Sappho, Corinna, Erinna, Nossis, and Sulpicia; early Hellenistic treaties attributed to Pythagorean women; private correspondence; Egeria's 5th-cent.  C.E. travel diary.
412	A continuation of for life science students, treating electricity and magnetism, electric circuits, waves and optics, and elementary topics in atomic and nuclear physics. Includes applications to biological systems.
413	A survey of the arts of Italy and northern Europe in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, viewed in light of the humanism and naturalistic outlook of the period.
414	The course consists of studio work in Level I Modern Dance technique, principles and style. The student is expected to master the beginner level elements of alignment, placement, rhythm and execution of movements that are unique to the modern dance idiom. Written requirements include: research paper on specific modern dance choreographers and a critique of an assigned professional dance concert.
415	The course will explore the diverse microbial world, focusing primarily on bacteria, but also including archaea, viruses, and eukaryotic microbes.  After exploring the basics of microbial structure, genetics, and metabolism, the course will focus on the interactions amongst microbes and between microbes and larger eukaryotes in the contexts of microbial disease and environmental microbiology.  The lab will reinforce course concepts while also increasing students' abilities to design and test hypotheses and to interpret scientific data.
416	A study of processor, memory, device, and information management of contemporary computer systems. Emphasis is placed on the models and algorithms for multi-programming computer operating systems. Discussion will include classic problems such as the concurrency problems of mutual exclusion, deadlock and synchronization, and memory management concepts such as paging, working set and segmentation. The laboratory includes an introduction to the UNIX operating system, an introduction to programming in an appropriate system language, such as C, and experiments designed to confirm or extend the principles developed in lecture. 
417	Exploration of the contributing elements of sexual behavior in a wide range of animal and human situations. Coverage of the psychological controls and implications of sexuality will include group and individual sexual development, norms of behavior, attraction, gender development and identifica- tion, birth control, art, and literature. Additional atten- tion will be paid to the involvement of the retarded, the handicapped, and the aged in sexual behavior. A research paper or class presentation will be required.
418	This course continues previous work in using an object- oriented language in problem solving, and will consist of two parallel strands: the development of students' expertise in advanced features of the language, and the further exploration of software-engineering methodologies, such as UML. The two strands will be developed in the context of a large-scale team-based project.
419	This course examines the management of organizations that deliver healthcare services such as hospitals, nursing homes, multi-specialty clinics and home healthcare agencies.  Students will analyze the organization, functions, roles and performance measures for effective planning and decision-making by today's healthcare managers in the context of the U.S. healthcare delivery system and current healthcare delivery programs.  Students will examine principles of effective management including organizational design, motivation, leadership, conflict management, teamwork and strategic alliances for dealing with emerging issues in the healthcare industry and relating to the delivery of effective, patient-centered care.  Current events and case studies will be used to illustrate how managers use available information and data to improve the quality of organizational decisions and processes to achieve fiscal sustainability.
420	Instrumental methods of structure determinatioin and quantitative analysis with an emphasis on advanced instrumental methods used in organic and biochemistry are covered in this course. Advanced analytical techniques will include liquid and gas chromatography, spectroscopy, and biochemical separation techniques.
421	Political and cultural development of modern France from the French Revolution to the present.
422	This course covers two areas central to the development of analytic philosophy in the 20th century: the philosophy of language and the philosophy of mind. Topics in the philosophy of language may include: truth and meaning; speech acts; reference and descriptions; names and demonstratives; propositional attitudes; metaphor; and interpretation. Topics in the philosophy of mind may include: the mind-body problem; mental causation; mental content; innateness and modularity; and associationism and connectionism.
423	This course surveys theoretical and applied issues relating to the nature of human intelligence. The history of intelli- gence testing is covered, with emphasis on its impact on social policy in the United States throughout the 20th century. The question What is intelligence? is examined from several viewpoints, including psychometric, information processing, and cross-cultural perspectives. Theory and research regarding hereditary versus environmental influences on intelligence are studied. Finally, prospects for training intelligence through the use of thinking skills programs are evaluated.
424	This course provides an overview of how economists define and measure crime.  Students learn to use the economist's tools to examine: the costs of crime and crime prevention to society and the individuals in it; the behavior of criminals and potential criminals; the markets for criminal behavior and the goods and services that are produced in them; organized crime versus disorganized crime; and the public policies aimed at dealing with crime. Theoretical explanations for crime, victimization, patterns of criminal behavior and the dynamics of differential involvement of specific groups in the criminal justice system are explored.
425	The course studies how national, subnational and transnational actors create and actuate norms, principles, treaties and institutions for dealing with global environmental issues.
426	A study of the relationship of religion and globalization in both their historical and contemporary manifestations. The course will focus on the development of New Religious Movements as global phenomena, the rise of Fundamentalist movements as a response to global and modern developments, and the Franciscan Tradition as a Christian encounter with globalization. 
427	An introduction to the application of statistical techniques to economic problems. This course includes a review of probability theory, mathematical expectation, and theoretical frequency distributions along with considerations of modeling economic phenomena. Ordinary and two-stage least squares regression techniques are utilized for hypothesis testing and economic forecasting.
428	An introduction into the nature of poetic experience. Technical and structural factors of poetry will be studied in order to deepen appreciation of the genre.
429	This course provides an overview of current information systems and data management concepts from an analytics perspective.  Students will be equipped with the skills needed for data querying for analytics, database management and reporting.  Issues associated with managing large, unwieldy and poorly structured data sets will be discussed.  Topics are expected to change as new issues, technologies emerge.
430	This course examines various aspects of science from a philosophical perspective. Topics may include: scientific explanation; causation; induction, confirmation and underdetermination; realism and the nature of theories; scientific change and rationality; and science, culture, and society. Thinkers to be considered may include Hempel, Popper, and Kuhn.
431	This two-hour lab provides students with knowledge of the definition of child abuse, maltreatment and neglect according to NYS Family Court and Social Services Law, and explores the legal and ethical implications of the law for practitioners. 
432	Provides a review and amplification of selected general physics topics together with techniques and practice in physics problem solving.
433	A continuation of the general physics sequence. Fundamentals of electricity and magnetism, dc and ac circuits, electro- magnetic waves, geometeric optics of mirrors and lenses, interference and diffraction phenomena in light.
434	we'll explore how to artfully write and shape true stories.  Often, we'll rely on the tools associated with fiction writing and consider craft elements such as characterization, setting, description, and use of figurative language as we write about real events and people.  Topics we'll examine include the challenge of turning oneself into a character in an essay, the ethics of creative nonfiction, how to write about what we don't remember, recreating conversations, and writing about family and friends.  We will read and write various types of essays including memoir, the personal essay, the lyric essay, the nature essay, and the graphic essay.  Assignments include three essays and shorter craft exercises.  Students will also be responsible for analytical responses to published work. There will be a workshop component to this course, and students are expected to share their work with classmates and engage in peer review. 
435	This course presents the legal concepts governing the conduct of business in the United States from a managerial perspective including contracts, torts, agency and government regulations. The course is designed to equip managers and other business persons with an understanding of the legal process as it applies to managerial and other business problems. As legal rules frequently change, the emphasis will be developing independent critical thinking skills
436	This course focuses on brand management throughout the life of a product.  Students will learn how to build, measure, and manage brand equity.  Emphasis will be placed on brands and brand management, developing a brand strategy, implementing a brand marketing program, measuring a brands performance, and growing/sustaining brand equity.  Additional emphasis will be placed on the tasks of positioning, brand personality, and alternative branding strategies.  The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need in order to develop and manage product brands to meet the needs of a diverse market across all socioeconomic groups.  Cases, individual an group learning projects will be used to provide students an experiential format for learning. 
437	Modern approaches to its various uses, including investment aspects of life insurance, types of contracts, the beneficiary clause and settlement options. Includes analysis of the life and health insurance contracts, types and organization of companies, investment policy, underwriting and marketing, and rate-marketing principles and techniques, including reserves and surrender values.
438	An analysis of Soviet foreign relations: goals, strategy, and tactics, including the Cold War and post-Soviet foreign policy.
439	A survey of East Asian history with emphasis on the political economic, social, and cultural development of China, Japan, and Korea: from earliest times to 1600.
440	This course is designed to introduce students to interactive media and online reporting.  Students will learn the technology required to design and produce a web site. They will learn to write for new media; particularly the internet. Students will also practice using the internet for journalistic research.  This course will also be open to students interested in using the internet for distributing their creative work.  No previous experience with web design is required. 
441	This course examines the role of financial markets and institutions in the financial system, including the role of the central bank and effective regulation.  Topics include the asymmetric information problem and how markets and intermediaries reduce asymmetric information.  This course will cover the following areas: commercial banking and securities markets; interest rates and risk management; central banking, monetary policy; current issues in financial markets and institutions. 
442	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing lighting and sound for the stage. Students will utilize design, drafting and presentation skills developed in class to create lighting cues, lighting plots, electrician schedules, sound plots, sound cues and sound recordings based on the interpretatin of a theatrical script. Students will have the opportunity to explore the principles of lighting in a lighting laboratory using current technology. Students will also use current sound technology to record, construct and manipulate sound effects. This course is de- signed for students with no theatre experienceas well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
443	A survey of Spanish literature.
444	An introduction to the tools and methods of active research.  Topics will include such practical concerns as computer interfacing, control circuits, basic vacuum system design, and proper handling of diode lasers.  These skills will then be applied to investigate techniques such as Faraday rotation, interferometry and electron beam steering.
445	A study of human growth and development from conception to puberty, including motor, emotional, intellectual, language and social development, and children's imaginative activities, ideals, morals, religion, and interests with particular emphasis on contemporary theories.
446	This is a one semester course on selected topics in the history of mathematical ideas. Topics covered may include the notions of limit, infinity, area, parallelism, pi, transcendental numbers, number systems, mensuration, polynomials, cosmology, map coloring, logic, proof, abstraction, generalization, quadrature, trisection, or algebraic structure. The history of a given idea will be traced, and relevant problems will be presented. This course is intended for students in all schools of the College.
447	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting on an advanced level for students who have already completed the introductory course in sports writing and reporting.  Students work individually and in teams to create professional-caliber stories and assist in production of the College's ESPN3 programming. Students are assigned readings that illustrate advanced sports reporting techniques, and learn to craft hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces that illustrate a sophisticated understanding of journalistic writing skills and shooting and editing techniques. Students create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and professional ethical standards.
448	This course is designed as an analysis of political institutions in Western Europe.  Topics to be addressed include the impact of the welfare state and dilemmas of governing in post-modern and post- industrial societies, as well as problems of race and ethnicity.  Some familiarity with parliamentary systems or other political cultures would be a helpful background for interested students. 
449	The practical basis of the status of the individual and personal rights as discussed and elaborated upon in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States. The case law approach is used.
450	the first course in the creative writing sequence at Siena and is intended for students with little to no experience with creative writing.  This course will introduce students to the basics of writing poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction and will prepare students for further study in these three genres. This class will feature a great deal of in-class writing exercises, and students should be prepared to write in class and share what they've written out loud for critique. There is a workshop component to this class, and students should expect to share their creative work with their classmates throughout the semester.  Students should also be prepared to study and analyze contemporary published poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction and to respond to these readings with short critical responses. 
451	This course focuses on the synthesis and application of theoretical and empirical knowledge within a caring nursing framework to deliver care to a client, family, population or community group.  Emphasis is placed on the community assessment process and the development of nursing strategies to assist multi-problem families while considering health on a continuum.  This course focuses on transcultural nursing concepts, family systems theory, theories of adaptation and educational needs of various populations.  The clinical component focuses on the development of a broader perspective of the nurse's role in a variety of clinical and environmental settings throughout the lifespan.  In addition, the nurse's role on the public health team and an understanding of the diverse health care needs of underserved and vulnerable populations, various cultural groups and the LBGTQ population will be studied.  Concepts include epidemiology, healthcare policy, economics, health disparity, cultural diversity, health literacy, disease prevention, health promotion, injury prevention, disaster preparation and family care.
452	An in-depth introduction to a computer algebra system. The basic features of the computer algebra system, a study of the embedded functions, programming and graphics will be covered. Emphasis will be on the development of an understanding of the system and the capabilities that will allow for the successful application of this powerful tool to the solution of mathematical and scientific problems.
453	Latin American and Caribbean economic history and development within the context of historical, social, and political processes that have shaped the region
454	This course is designed to familiarize students with a broad array of classic and current theory and research that are studied primariliy by psychologists in the area of social psychology. Students will become familiar with the topics of social cognition, social perception, attitudes and attitude change, love, hate (prejudice), conformity, compliance, obedience, and influence. In addition to becoming familiar with theory and research findings, the course emphasizes ways in which the information can be useful to students in their daily lives.
455	The historical origins of Islam, the emergence and develop- ment of various strands of religious tradition, and their impact on the modern world. Analysis and historical survey of such key concepts as tawhid (essence of Islam), and of its basic categories for religious life, theology, law, lit- erature, philosophy, and science. In addition attention is paid to the growing presence of Islam in Europe and America.
456	Geographic Information Systems (GIS) is a tool for viewing and analyzing spatial information. In this course, students will learn GIS fundamentals through applied projects that explore environmental issues. Topics include delineating watersheds and river networks, plotting GPS data, analyzing land-use trends over time, tracking weather systems, classifying remote sensing data, and mapping ecosystem patch structure and dynamics. Emphasis is placed on gaining hands-on experience using the ESRI ArcGIS and Google mapping environments. Students will complete an individual research project and share their research in a poster presentation.
457	The course addresses issues of diversity in American society as they have been represented in the American theatre. Through class discussion, readings of play scripts and supplemental material, and attendance at both professional and academic productions, students will examine the various means through which American theatre addresses issues of race and ethnicity, gender, class, religion, and politics. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
458	The objective of this course is to familiarize the student with the methods, trends, and policies involved in financing real estate transactions, as well as with the investment features of real estate. It includes topics such as the legal aspects of financing, permanent and construction lend- ing, alternative sources of financing real property, invest- ment analysis, yield on investment, and real estate and income taxes.
459	This course introduces students to the various formulations that social and political philosophies have taken as humans attempted to shape their cultural lives in terms of some idea of the good. Since justice is often the formulation for the highest social/political good, the course will emphasize this concern. Major philosophers from various times and cultures will be studies.
460	This course is divided into five modules that address the fundamentals of group theory, qualitative aspects of quantum mechanics, vibrational spectroscopy, molecular orbital theory and electronic spectroscopy. Symmetry and group theory will be applied to the interpretation of molecular orbital interactions, ligand field theory, molecular vibrations, and angular momentum. An introduction to molecular spectroscopy, including vibrational, rotational, and electronic spectroscopy, as well as NMR, Raman, and Mossbauer spectroscopy will be discussed as they pertain to symmetry operations. Molecular symmetry will also be used to interpret optical activity and dipole moments, and spectroscopic interpretation through representation of groups, reducible and irreducible representations. The Great Orthogonality theorem, SALCs, and projection operators. Both spectroscopic and computational methods of demonstration will be used throughout the course.
461	This course is intended for those students who have a good knowledge of written French but who have had limited opportunity to hear and speak it. Class work will consist of building the vocabulary of everyday speech with a view towards an active vocabulary and giving confidence in oral expression.
462	An introductory exploration of the various elements involved in creating and responding to the theatre,  This course will expose the student to the creative aspects of playwriting, acting, directing and design and will develop the critical skills necessary to the informed audience member.  Through discussion and attendance at both professional and academic productions, the student will be exposed to the complexities of the art form and entertainment industry.  This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage.  A field trip to a professional production is required. 
463	A survey of different forms of national capitalist economic organization, e.g. comparisons of the U.S., Germany and Japan with regard to institutional and policy-making differences as they affect the distribution of wealth and income and social welfare. Other topics include comparisons of various socialist economies and formerly socialist economies in Eastern Europe and China, as well as the emerging hybrid forms of economic organization in those societies.
464	A study of the background material needed for calculus with emphasis on functions. The course includes a study of relations, functions and graphs, polynomials, solving equations and inequalities, rational and radical functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, trigonometric functions both right angle and analytic, vectors, polar and parametric equations, and an introduction to the conic sections. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to beginning this course.
465	A study of the status of the child, from the beginning of life to the twelfth year inclusive.  The interaction of children with social institutions such as family, school, religion, economics, etc. will be investigated as well as certain problems of childhood in contemporary America, with cross-cultural comparisons.
466	An introduction to quantum mechanics/atomic structure, periodicity, valence bond theory, solid state structure/ thermodynamics, and the descriptive chemistry of the Main Group.
467	This course is designed as an introduction to both Classical and Medieval political theory as a discipline and to the political culture of the European West.  We will explore an assortment of works, including both conventional and un- conventional (or less well-known writers).  Our most im- portant goals are to examine how these writers understood themselves and their society, and how that understanding affected ideas about justice, the nature of power, rule, law, and obligation.  We will also examine why these works, among others, came to be considered the foundation of Western political thought.
468	A survey of the history of Latin America from the 1820s to the present.
469	Lecture and laboratory covering the general principles of physiology with emphasis on human physiology.  Topics covered include homeostasis, complementarity of structure and function, and the physiology of selected organ systems.
470	This course analyzes a variety of primary documents such as historical texts and images to understand the history of Spain from prehistoric times to the present. The course highlights how Spain is a true crossroads for culture as home to various cultural and religious groups (Catholics, Muslims and Jews) and as a country with strong regional identities. Contemporary themes of youth culture, tourism, immigration, and the development of democracy complement the study of artistic expressions such as painting, architecture, music and cinema.
471	The purpose of this course is to explore the area of educational research.  Emphasis will be placed upon the attitude as well as the function of research, including the prin- ciples, methods, and strategies useful in planning, designing and evaluating studies of education.  Students will plan design, and prepare a proposal that incorporates principles of research.  The proposal will, when the opportunity permits, be translated into an empirical study. 
472	This course examines an important idea in political philoso- phy, that of democracy.  It does this both by studying the idea as it manifests itself in various epochs of the history of philosophy, and by exploring controversial questions in contemporary democratic theory.
473	The student is introduced to the functions of management in International firms and issues related to adapting managerial practice to local environments. The course focuses upon the globalization of markets, technologies and business practices and how organizational leaders and managers deal with these changing forces. Topics include managerial planning, communication, leadership, motivation, human resource management and organizational behavior in an international context.
474	This course explores political, economic, socio-cultural, and structural factors that create, encourage, and manage the transnational movement of populations worldwide.  In particular, this seminar emphasizes an analysis of both the positive and negative implications of population movements on refugee sending and receiving countries.  It also examines the impact of migration on marginalized and poor communities both in the industrialized and the developing world.
475	Today's leaders must navigate across cultures and geographical boundaries to generate sustainable value for business and society.  In this course students will learn how to apply innovative leadership techniques in a complex global system to deliver sustainable economic, social, and environmental transformation.  They will learn the skills and mental frameworks essential for adaptive and ethical global leaders.  The focus will be on how innovative and sustainable business practices can make a difference inside and outside organizations.
476	The experience of adolescence as a distinct period of development is examined. Topics include biological processes and their psychosocial significance including health problems. Issues related to adolescent sexuality are also examined including sexual attitudes and behavior and gender roles. Intellectual changes during adolescence and their effects on social cognition, moral reasoning, and political thought are described. Selected family issues and relationships as influences on adolescent development are considered as well as peer group relationships, friendships, and other social relationships. The issue of identity formation is examined in detail. The effects of school experiences on academic achievement and career development are also discussed as are adjustment problems and disturbances during adolescence.
477	A survey of German history and culture from the Period of the Migration to the Age of Frederick the Great.
478	Designed for students who are pursing a career in one of the medical fields, this course will focus on the study of the Latin and Greek roots that form the basis of most medical and scientific vocabulary. The practical aim of the course is to allow the student who is preparing for one of the medical professions to enhance greatly their acquisition of medical terminology.  This course will also investigate the origin, ideas, and practice of ancient science and medicine.
479	A study of the foundations of Christian belief. Basic themes in Christian thought such as the meaning of human existence, the experience of God, the significance of evil, and the community as focus of God's activity will be explored in terms of the person and work of Jesus.
480	This course will focus on current, prominent, and clinically applicable theories of intimate relationahips.  Students will be exposed to the writings of theorists, clinicians, and researchers who have examined relational dynamics and the factors that contribute to relationship satisfaction or dissatisfaction.  Included will be an examination of hypo- thesized and empirically estabished gender differences in intimate relationship functioning.  Clinical applications of theories and case studies will be emphasized.
481	This course will focus on the varieties of women's religious experience. Various descriptions of the reality, dis- tinctiveness, and value of women's religious experience as well as the role of women in institutional forms of religion will be analyzed. Readings will be drawn from the major religions of the world, with focus on the western religious traditions.
482	This course is designed for students pursuing the English/Education certificate. The main goal of the course is to familiarize students with the genre of adolescent literature. Students are required to write critical response papers and to lead class discussion. A final project involving the creation of a literature unit appropriate for a middle school classroom, is required.
483	The knowledge and physical assessment skills necessary to complete a culturally competent advanced health history and physical examination are the focus of this course.  The assessment of pre-existing health conditions, disease screening and subsequent health promotion strategies will be considered with physical, psychosocial, and cultural health concerns across the lifespan. The use of caring communication to explore patient life histories and experiences are integral to this course.  Simulation experience will promote skills in collecting and analyzing data to plan patient- centered care utilizing the nursing process.
484	This course will familiarize students with the people, events, and ideas that have inspired the Franciscan Movement. Students will come to understand the historical development of the Franciscan movement in all its diversity within the context of the High Middle Ages, in comparison with and in contrast to earlier forms of religious life within the Christian tradition. Topics may include the role of Franciscans in the development of Christian Spirituality over the past 800 years. Students will take a brief look at the contemprorary expression of the Franciscan Tradition at Siena College.
485	A study of the beginings of Protestant Christianity, its development in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and the basic thought of representative twentieth century theo- logians such as Karl Barth, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Rudolf Bultmann, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Paul Tillich.
486	This course examines how humans take in information through the senses, and the relationship between sensory input and conscious experience. The visual system is examined in detail as a prototype, and examples from other senses (hearing, taste, touch, pain) are included throughout the course. Among topics included are psychophysics, physiological bases of sensation, attention, perception of form, depth, contrast, motion, object constancies, and perceptual development. Lecture material is supplemented by demonstrations designed to allow students to experience many of the perceptual phenomena studied in the course.
487	The major themes of Earth Science are (1) the geographic location and global distribution of natural earth phenomena. (2) the origin and interpretation of these phenomena within the framework of a hierarchy of interacting physical systems and mechanisms, and (3) the impact of past and present human activities on the natural balance of these systems and mechanisms. Topics include climate and weather; atmospheric, surface, and subsurface water; soils and soil processes; natural vegetation; landforms; and diastrophic, fluvial and erosional processes.
488	This course is an introduction to the theory of curves and surfaces in the three-dimensional Euclidean space. Topics include curve arc length, curvature, torsion, the Frenet n-frame, the first and second fundamental forms of a surface, normal and principal curvatures, Gaussian and the mean curvatures, isometries of surfaces, and geodesic curves on a surface.
489	This course is a quantitative approach to security analysis, including the theory of financial statement analysis and valuation of the firm. The course also includes analysis of business and economic conditions, industry analysis, and ratio analysis. An oral and written presentation of computer based research projects is required.
490	A survey of major concepts in the visual arts from impressionism to the present.
491	The major movements of 20th century European thought such as phenomenology, hermeneutics, structuralism, deconstruction, feminism, and psychoanalysis. Major figures include Husserl, Heidegger, Arendt, Gadamer, Levinas, Foucault, Derrida, Deleuze, Irigarary, and Kristeva. Typical questions pertain to problems of consciousness, language, embodiment, power, and otherness.
492	An introductory course in business statistics covering the topics of descriptive statistics, discrete probability distributions, the normal distribution, sampling distributions, estimation, hypothesis testing, statistical quality control, simple linear regression and correlation. A statistical software package is used.
493	This course, which considers the theory and practice of effective instructional practices in diverse classrooms, will focus on the components of instruction and will be practice-oriented and performance-based. Additionally, this course provides prospective teachers with a framework to help them reflect on and improve their student teaching experience. Consequently, students will study Danielson's Framework for Teaching and use it to analyze their success within the four domains of planning and preparation, classroom environment, instruction, and professional responsibilities. Emphasis will be given to the understanding and application of the New York State Student Learning Standards in inclusive subject area classrooms. Such topics as unit planning and lesson planning, motivation inclusion, diversity, teacher expectations, questioning skills, feedback strategies, methodology, technologies, and evaluation and assessment will be studies. The prospective teacher will develop and practice behaviors and strategies characteristic of effective teaching. Attention will be given to ways to place middle and high school students in more active roles as learners. Students pursuing Siena's teacher certification program will be required to successfully complete a forty-hour field experience in inclusive classrooms at the secondary level (grades 7-12).
494	A beginning studio course exploring traditional photographic concerns as expressed through the digital format. Basic technical issues of camera operation, image processing via the computer, and print output are explored. Aesthetic issues regarding composition, light, subject matter and photographic vision are stressed.
495	This course explores various aspects of sports writing and reporting.  Students are taught to develop stories for print, radio, television and on-line publications. Students are assigned readings that illustrate strong storytelling techniques, and learn to craft basic hard news stories as well as feature reports and profile pieces.  Students learn the fundamentals of shooting and editing video.  Students learn to create content under deadline pressure that conforms to legal and ethical standards.
496	A survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power; from the Civil War era to the present.
497	This course provides a review of the fundamental aspects of alcoholism and drug abuse in contemporary society, particulary as they relate to generalist social work practice. Areas to be covered include: a historical perspective of intoxicants, the psychopharmacology and biochemistry of alcohol and substance abuse, models for for understanding addiction, family dynamics related to chemical dependency, treatment aspects of alcoholism and chemical dependency, and a history of legislation, policy and legal issues pertaining to alcoholism and substance abuse.
498	A survey of the masterpieces of Latin Literature in English translations from the Republic to the Late Empire, which may include selections from the comedies of Plautus and Terence, the histories of Livy, Sallust, and Tacitus, the commentaries of Julius Caesar, the poetry of Catullus, Horace, Vergil and Ovid, the biographies of Suetonius and Tacitus, the speeches and philosophical works of Cicero, Lucretius' De Rerum Natura, the comic novels of Petronius and Apuleius, and the Confessions of Augustine.
499	Purposes and principles of the United Nations and other regional and global international organizations with politics, structure, voting, and policies of member states explored.
500	A critical examination of the development of the major schools of economic thought from the seventeenth through the early twentieth centuries, with particular attention on mercantilism, classicism, marginalism, socialism, and neo-classicism.  This course requires substantial reading, including primary texts.
501	An advanced level studio course exploring the unique place of the human body within the history of painting and drawing. The class will rely on professional models. Students will analyse traditional and contemporary figurative iconography. Students will apply contemporary art theory to the creation of original work.
502	A study of the basic topics in psychology that lay the foundation for courses leading to a major in psychology and are relevant to assisting students in understanding themselves and others. This course is recommended to students seeking an elective in psychology and as the initial course for psychology majors.
503	This course serves as the foundation for the RN to BS program introducing the RN student to the philosophical and theoretical framework of the Baldwin Nursing Program at Siena College.  The caring science curriculum is introduced and concepts that contribute to the professional development of the nurse are reviewed.  The student is introduced to the role(s) and role models of professional nursing within the current social, economic, psychological, political and philosophical context.  Historical and con- temporary social forces that are key to the current role of the professional nurse are explored.  Principles of the professional nurse's role and promotion of the profession are highlighted in this course.  The students will begin the development of a professional ePortfolio for use throughout the curriculum and in the professional practice settings. 
504	This foundational course approaches the study of Spanish with a special emphasis on reading, writing and speaking.  Students analyze and read articles and short stories in Spanish, write thematic compositions through a peer and instructor review process, create a writing portfolio, review grammar, and participate in numerous discussions and presentations in Spanish.
505	This laboratory course introduces students to experimental methods applied to thermodynamic and material science in- vestigations. Techniques such as vacuum line manipulations, uv/vis spectrometry, calorimetry, NMR spectroscopy, and re- fractometry, are used to study phase diagrams, ideal and non-ideal behavior, equilibria, electrochemistry, and thermodynamic state functions. Polymers are synthesized and analyzed by viscometry and chromatographic techniques. The use of computers for data acquisition is emphasized.
506	A study of the historical movement of peoples from around the world to the United States within the context of global political and economic changes that emphasizes trans- national connections and the complex history of race, citizenship, and intercultural relations.
507	This course introduces students to the sources, concepts, beliefs, and practices central to Catholic social teaching. In light of biblical and theological traditions that the Catholic Church asserts are fundamental to being Christian, the course examines various social problems that pose challenges to those committed to justice. The course equips students to analyze ecological, economic, social, and political policies using the critical resources of Catholic social teaching in dialogue with other modes of social analysis. After exploring global issues during the first half of the semester, we will consider domestic problems in the United States. The course aims to educate students about current affairs from the perspective of Catholic traditions on social justice as well as to refine their analytical skills in applied moral theology.
508	This course has a significant focus on the challenges faced by people and communities dealing with poverty in rural North America. It critically examines community development and community needs/challenges unique to a rural setting. This is a travel/immersion course with the travel being done in August of the sophomore year to a rural community outside Siena's immediate geographic region.
509	This course explores political, economic, socio-cultural, and structural factors that have intensified ethnic, religious, and tribal conflict, extreme poverty, and a legacy of authoritarianism. The propogation of the global oil trade and the consequences for marginalized and poor communities, and women and minorities in the region, will also be examined.
510	A studio course in which students analyze and interpret a variety of dramatic texts for the theatre. Students develop an artistic concepts out of this study in order to render costume plates and makeup plots for the stage. Students will study the aesthetics and theory of design as well as current and past theatrical practice of costume design in the theatre. Students will be introduced to the history and politics of clothing and the cultural adaptations as applied to the stage. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required. 
511	A close reading of selections from Ancient Greek and Roman narratives and poetry as well as later works of literature that are influenced by myths, mythical themes, and archetypal figures drawn from these earlier works. This course traces the literary genealogy of mythical elements in later works such as The Inferno by Dante, Paradise Lost by John Milton, Antigone by Jean Anouilh, and Ulysses by Tennyson, among others.  Special focus is given to these revisions as manifestations of changing cultural and historical perspectives.
512	An introduction to the major forms, techniques, and composers in all epochs of music history to develop a better understanding and enjoyment of the art of music. Attendance at designated music performances will be required.
513	This seminar is devoted to the study of individual thinkers whose work has contributed to shape the world's philosophical traditions. Based on primary texts, its goal is to reconstruct the genesis of key ideas, the lines of continuity and rupture in the corpus of a single author, and the impact those have had on other thinkers. Students in this course will be responsible for producing a substantial research paper evidencing philosophical methodology and knowledge. Students may take this course for credit more than once if the content differs.
514	This course will cover the theories explaining the function and evolution of genomes alongside hands- on application of the computational tools biologists use to understand them.  Topics covered include DNA sequencing, genome assembly, transcriptomics, gene annotation, genome evolution, and functional  genomics. Various bioinformatic tools and online databases will be used, with an emphasis on hands-on manipulation and analysis of real genomic datasets.  As part of this class, students will conduct independent genomic research projects. 
515	The course examines representative works from Proust to the present day and provides discussion of each author's ideas of basic modern problems in English.  No knowledge of French language is required.
516	Game theory is the study of how decisions are made when the result of a choice depends on the actions of others. This course will introduce a variety of common tools and methods used in game theory, focusing on economic uses but also including biological and political applications. Emphasis will be placed not only on mastery of the models, but on distinguishing proper tools of analysis for various situations. The course will cover traditional game theory, evolutionary game theory, and network games. Articles from both the popular press and scholarly work along with real life examples will be incorporated to show these approaches in action.
517	Statistical tests for multivariable problems are developed and applied to real data sets. The computer and the SPSS package will be used.
518	a studio course in the foundations of healthy technique for the individual singer. Readings, exercises and literature span a variety of historical periods and languages. Topic include music notation and sight-reading, listening and response, presentation and critique, interpretation, vocal health and pedagogy.
519	This course is designed for students who have strong high school preparation in chemistry. Topics include chemical structure and reactivity, thermodynamics, kinetics, and equilibrium.
520	A study of the political cultures and institutions of the newly independent states that were once part of the Soviet empire. The course includes discussions of modernization and adaptation as well as problems of ethnicity, race, and political socialization. 
521	An advanced management course aimed at providing students with indepth knowledge on the various leadership theories and insight into effective leadership practices. A critical examination of leadership theories and research will be undertaken. Areas of leadership covered include; management versus leadership, trait theories of leadership, behavior theories of leadership, participative leadership and delegation, power and influence, situational leadership, and modern theories of leadership. Emphasis will also be placed on providing an opportunity to apply the theories in practical business applications.
522	Lecture and laboratory covering the fundamental laws and principles of chemical structure and reactivity. Interactive laboratories focus on rediscovery of these principles and mastery of basic laboratory techniques including an introduction to chemical instrumentation and digital data analysis.
523	This course will examine the category of literataure usually designated as Science Fiction, SF, or Speculative Fiction. Science Fiction, in all its forms is essentially a litera- ature of ideas, in which the facts of current reality are altered in some way to answer the question What if?  The course will consider these questions: How is Science Fiction defined?  Where does Science Fiction begin? (With Verne and Wells, with Shelley's Frankenstein, or even earlier?) How is the literary category of Fantasy to be distinguished from Science Fictin?  How do we evaluate the aesthetics of Science Fiction?  Readings will include novels and short stories by authors such as H.G. Wells, Arthur C. Clarke, Isaac Asimov, Ursula LeGuin, Philip K. Dick, Octavia Butler, Samuel Delaney, William Gibson, and others.
524	A study of aquatic and terrestrial arthropods integrating ecology and physiology with systematics. Laboratory work in- cludes field studies of local habitats, and the investigation of unique arthropod physiological and behavioral adaptations. In addition, the pathological role of arthropods as parasites and disease vectors is considered.
525	European philosophy of the 17th and 18th centuries. Main figures include Descartes, Hobbes, Spinoza, Locke, Leibniz, Hume, and Kant. Typical questions pertain to the method proper to philosophy; the origins, nature, and limits of human knowledge; modern subjectivity and selfhood; and the nature of moral thinking and acting.
526	A study of environmental public policy: the major actors, institutions, and rules of the game that shape decision making. We will also engage in a dialog about the under- lying philosophies that drive resource utilization and en- vironmental preservation. We will primarily look at the case of the United States, but some attention will be given to the international dimensions of the subject.
527	A study of the interrelations of organisms with each other and the environment. The lectures are equally divided between ecosystem ecology (energy and material flux, modeling), population ecology (population dynamics, competition, predation) and community ecology (structure, diversity, and succession). The lab will emphasize methodology with weekly field trips to various local habitats. One weekend field trip is required.
528	This course examines an idea that has fascinated philoso- phers for all time.  The subject of love will be studied historically, with readings from ancient, modern, and con- temporary sources.  Literature and films may be used along with philosophical texts.
529	This course is a study of quantitative methods and tools for graduate business students.  Topics will include the following: Descriptive and graphical data analysis, applied probability, statistical inference, sampling and regression analysis.  Other advanced statistical techniques may be included in consonance with current practice. Appropriate technology will be used in helping students to analyze statistics and make appropriate decisions based on data.
530	The emergence of modern England during the reigns of the Tudors, Stuarts and first four Hanoverians, with emphasis on political, social and economic changes.
531	This laboratory course introduces modern synthetic methods of inorganic chemistry and characterization of the synthesized compounds. The laboratory emphasizes the use of modern instrumental techniques including NMR, UV visible and infrared spectroscopies, mass spectrometry and calorimetric techniques as well as digital data collection and analysis.
532	Students will study the history and culture of Sparta from its beginnings ca. 1,000 BCE to its eventual collaspe in the 4th Century BCE. The name Sparta has survived in the cultural memory of the west for more than 2,000 years in no small part due to its reputation for heroism and military might. We will examine the character of Spartan society and its emphasis on the heroic ideal. Students will learn how this ideal evolved, and how it enabled Sparta to become the most powerful state in ancient Greece. We will learn that Sparta's truly unique military, social and political systems came at a heavy price; this aspect of Spartan culture will constitute another major focus of the course. Our examination of Sparta and its history will be based on evidence derived from primary sources, archaeology, art and secondary sources.
533	This survey of the poets and prose writers of the neo- classical movement may include the works of Dryden, Swift, Pope, Johnson, and Boswell, and one or two novelists of the period.
534	An examination of how Jews and Judaism have responded to the crisis of modernity. Topics to be examined include the effects of the breakdown of the European Ghetto; the birth of Reform, Conservative, Reconstructionist, and Neo-orthodox Judaism; the Haskalah movement; Zionism; 20th century Jewish thought; post-Holocaust theology; contemporary trends in Judaism.
535	This course will cover algorithm design techniques such as divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, greedy approaches, and space-time tradeoffs. Example algorithms illustrating these design techniques will be introduced and include such things as balanced search trees, heaps, graph algorithms (depth-first and breath- first searches, minimum spanning trees and shortest paths), selection, and sorting algorithms (radix sort, heap sort, merge sort and quick sort). Asymptotic notations and techniques for analyzing the running times of these algorithms will be covered.  Limitations of algorithm power will be discussed, including an introduction to NP-complete problems.
536	A course consisting of selections from representative classical authors.  Important grammatical constructions are reviewed.  This course is recommended for students who have completed Elementary Latin.
537	A survey of the development of world theatre covering material from 17th century theatre through contemporary achievements, focusing on theatre architecture, plays, acting styles, theatrical conventions, methods of production and critical perspectives during significant periods of theatrical activity. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
538	From the earliest rock art of prehistory to the great stone cathedrals of the Middle Ages, this course examines the art of the world from the point of view of the cultures that produced them. Traveling through ancient spaces as well as time, students survey monuments like Stonehenge, the pyramids of Egypt, the complexes of Meso-America, the grave goods of ancient China, the Bronzes of ancient Africa, the temples, the churches and the shrines of the many religions that laid the foundations of our own world.
539	Some of an organization's most valuable assets are the brands that it has invested in and developed over time.  In this course, students take a customer-centric approach to explore brand management with the goal of identifying the ingredients for building and managing inspired brands.  The course focuses on improving student's marketing skills and understanding of specific marketing topics, as well as big picture issues of how various aspects of marketing fit together, all from a brand equity perspective.
540	The economic development of the United States from early beginnings to present time. A chronological approach is used to study economic aspects of the major problems of each period.
541	A survey of the social, cultural, and political development of the Ancient Greeks, beginning with the Minoan- Mycenaean and continuing from the Homeric through the Hellenistic Age.
542	The philosophy of 20th century Existentialism and its 19th century origins. Main figures include Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Marcel, Camus, Sartre, and Beauvoir. Typical questions pertain to freedom, death, responsibility, absurdity, and the meaning of existence in theistic and atheistic contexts.
543	This course surveys the history of European women from ancient times to the present, with particular attention to how the study of women and gender has changed the way historians analyze the past. The construction of the concept of masculinity and feminity will be explored through careful examination of primary and secondary materials. The latest historiographical approaches to the study of women and gender will be considered as will new resources for research.
544	The course examines popular culture and its relationship to power and society in everyday life. Popular culture includes subcultures, fashion, music, mass media, advertising, entertainment, and leisure.  Students explore image and representation and popular culture as everyday social practices. Curriculum and assignments examine both cultural production and consumption. The course will examine gender in relation to popular culture and representation. 
545	Through focusing on the development of the Markowitz Procedure, Capital Asset Pricing Model, Arbitrage Pricing and other theories, this course seeks to familiarize students with the theory underlying the practice of Finance. In addition, this course will also familiarize students with the inherent problems associated with these models as well as their strengths.
546	An examination of the stances and attitudes towards nature and the environment taken by several religious communities. The course will assist students to develop a constructive assessment of the theological and ethical contributions religious communites can make to environmental studies.
547	A survey of operatic styles and major composers principally from early to modern opera geared to those students who are just beginning, or who have not yet begun, to take an interest in opera as well as for those who desire to know more about an art form they already enjoy. There is a required field trip.
548	This course is an introduction to the concepts and profession of personal financial planning.  Gain an understanding of the role and responsibilities of a financial planner, along with analytical skills to aid in financial decision-making. Topics include the financial planning process, securities regulation and licensing, CFP Board ethics, the economic environment, the time value of money, and planning for special situations such as a college education, the formation and operation of a closely held business, and disability.  It also previews wealth accumulation, tax, retirement, and estate planning techniques. 
549	This beginning course is designed for students with no background in Spanish.  The main objective is to help you achieve a beginner's level of proficiency in Spanish. It will emphasize the development of practical communication skills through a variety of interactive activities and the study of basic grammar structures. Besides listening comprehension, reading, writing and pronunciation skills, the course will focus on the diverse cultures of the Spanish-speaking countries around the world and the Spanish-speaking people living in the United States.
550	Sustainable tourism refers to a variety of culturally, economically and environmentally-friendly tourism experiences developed in collaboration with the host community.  This course investigates the relationship between tourism and sustainable development both domestically and abroad.  Lectures, discussion, and collaborative projects focus on sustainable best practices as means not only to support earned livelihood and resource protection, but also cultural retention and geographic integrity.
551	An introduction to the techniques of Euclidean and Non- Euclidean geometry. Topics include: plane Euclidean geometry, geometric transformation groups, spherical geometry, the projective and hyperbolic planes.
552	A historical treatment from the European perspective of the principal developments and crises from the end of World War II to the present. 
553	While still easily accessible to the typical student, slightly more advanced mathematical topics are introduced, including linear functions and regression, exponential and power functions, growth models, periodic behavior, and systems of difference equations. These ideas will be illustrated by scientific topics that may include, broadly, earthquake models, resource sustainability, pollution, energy, and hazardous household waste. Specific examples include meat consumption in China, thinning of glaciers, mercury in dental fillings and in compact 5 fluorescent light bulbs, and e-waste, such as leachable lead in discarded cathode ray tubes. 
554	An examination of the nature of deviance, the dominant theories for explaining deviant behavior, and the implications of these theories for its control.  Several examples of deviance will be discussed, with emphasis on the social factors related to their occurence and the utility of various theories in their explanation. Gender will be included as an organizing perspective on topics covered. 
555	A survey of South Africa from pre-colonial times through the arrival of white settlers and the ensuing race conflict which has raged through the centuries, with emphasis on the social, political and economic dimensions, up to the present. 
556	This is a foundation course that encompasses written, oral, and interpersonal communication skills in formal and informal settings. Fundamental communication theories, principles and practices are studied from an international business perspective. Applications in business writing, oral presentations, and interpersonal skills provide students with important communications skills required in today's global environment.
557	This course is an overview of the major institutions and processes of the American political system.  Both formal (i.e., Congress, the Presidency, and the Judiciary), and the informal (e.g., political parties, interest groups, the media, etc.) institutions will be covered.  It is designed to help the students not only acquire a basic knowledge of American government, but also develop the ability to critique and and analyze it. 
558	The course introduces students to the creative process of doing mathematics and the language and style of precise mathematical communication.  We do this by investigating logic, set theory and mathematical proof. The main emphasis of the course is on composing logically correct mathematical arguments and communicating those arguments through oral and written presentations.
559	Foundations in Chemistry introduces the basic principles of chemistry and establishes the mathematical foundation necessary to succeed in the general chemistry course sequence.
560	Digital technology has empowered customers, while producting massive amounts of data, revolutionizing the processes through which organizations attract and retain customers.  In this course students will learn how to create and use consumers' web interactions with brands and measure those interactions using appropriate analytic tools.  Students will apply marketing analytics to real-world marketing problems.
561	The course continues to focus on doctrinal leadership and tactical operations at the small unit level. It includes opportunities to plan and conduct individual and collective skill training for military operations to gain leadership and tactical experience. The course synthesizes the various components of training leadership and team building. Students are required to incorporate previous military science instruction for their practical application in a performance-oriented environment. Upon completion of the course, students will possess the fundamental confidence and competence of leadership in a small unit setting and are prepared to attend the Leadership Development and Assessment Course. 
562	Presents principles of software engineering, including the software development life cycle (SDLC); i.e. the planning, creating, testing, and deploying an information system. This course introduces various software development project management models, with a focus on the Agile Scrum framework. Students work in teams with a client to design and develop a large-scale software application.
563	Emphasis on the development of writing skills and extended study of cultural realities. This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of five semesters of college Arabic.
564	This course is a systematic study of the nature and causes human social behavior and will focus on the theories and methods that have been developed primarily by sociologists to help understand everyday social life.  It examines such topics as socialization, development of the self, gender roles, social interaction and interpersonal relationships, conformity and deviance, self-presentation and impression formation, leadership, and inter-personal processes such as cooperation, conformity and confict.
565	This course provides a conceptually-based exposure to the fundamental principles and processes of the physical world. Practical and everyday aspects of physics that will be discussed include the mechanics of sports, electricity, optics, and how the eye and camera work etc. Additional topics may include atoms, quantum theory, the laser, the theory of relativity and cosmology (just what is a black hole?) Requires one year of high school algebra.
566	A survey of world theatre, from its origins to the 21st Century. This course focuses on diverse world views and functions of performance as seen in the theatre of various cultures and historical periods. Areas of study include the occasions, social contexts, styles, and locations of theatrical performance; methods of production; and critical perspectives. The course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
567	This course consists of coursework that will be taught in English and consist of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected Arabic speaking country.  Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience.  Upon return, students, present a project/research paper and portfolio  based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
568	This course provides students with the opportunity to develop and enhance their negotiation and research skills through participation in a computer facilitated simulation in which they represent a country in an international simulation with students from colleges and universities in the United States and abroad. Each year students will represent a different country and develop issue proposals to be negotiated and voted upon at the end of the three-week simulation.
569	This elective draws from knowledge, values, and skills related to the fields of social work, psychology, public health, and sociology as it pertains to crisis theory and crisis intervention.  The definition of crisis and phenomena of crisis from different theoretical perspectives will be examined along with an exploration of the impact of crisis on an individual, framily/group, and community.  Applicable assessment skills will be learned for specific crisis situations.  In addition, this class is a Franciscan Concern course with an emphasis on social justice.  You will develop an understanding of how equity, equality, and oppression may minimize or exacerbate the experience of crisis.
570	This course is desinged as an analysis of political institutions in Western Europe. Topics to be addressed include the impact of the welfare state and dilemmas of governing in post-modern and post-industrial socities, as well as problems of race and ethnicity. Some familiarity with parliamentary systems or other political cultures would be a helpful background for interested students.
571	A survey of selected philosophers and philosophical schools of thought and their influence on Christian Theology, Christian beliefs and practices.  Selection will generally follow a time period, e.g. Ancient, Modern, Contemporary. This course may be repeated for credit when the selected material differs. 
572	This course introduces the structural, physical, and chemical properties of polymeric macromolecules, the thermodynamic and kinetic properties that govern their various features. The synthesis and characterization of these molecules will be investigated. This course will emphasizes many of the various techniques of regulating polymerization.
573	Advanced oral work through class discussion of selected topics and creation of dialogues.  Intensive pronunciation work.
574	This six-hour workshop is designed to provide the student with knowledge of physical and psychological addiction to controlled substances; chemical dependency; drugs of abuse; legal issues for teachers; behavioral indicators of sub- stance abuse; goals of a schoolwide substance abuse prevention program; goals of a schoolwide intervention program; goals of a schoolwide intervention program; curriculum materials on decision-making, coping strategies, and self-esteem; issues of adolescence; and the continuum of services.
575	This course introduces logic, set theory and techniques of mathematical proof. The main emphasis of the course is on composing logically correct mathematical arguments. Oral and written presentation of solutions and proofs are a required part of this course,
576	A study of the intellectual roots of modern psychology, in- cluding contributions from philosophy and physiology: Major figures in the history of psychology are discussed as well as their schools of thought: Structuralism, Functionalism, Gestalt Psychology, Behaviorism, and Psychoanalysis. Additional topics included are the history of clinical psychology (views and treatment of mental illness), and the rise of mental testing.
577	This course covers the theoretical and practical application of several advanced instrumental techniques. These tech- niques include a variety of spectroscopy methods, gas and liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, and electrochemistry.
578	Law as a social institution has an important explanatory power in the study of societies. This course examines the theoretical foundations of the study of law, its socio-historical basis and contentious legal issues.
579	History of women in the United States from the pre-Columbian era to the present.  Students will focus on issues, of gender difference in the history of American business, labor, politics, culture, and social life, as well as considering differences between women with regard to race, ethnicity, class, and age.
580	A study of computer simulation and modeling methods with application to physical systems. Topics will be selected from: the two-body problem, linear and nonlinear systems, chaotic motion, random processes, normal modes and waves, numerical integration and Monte Carlo methods, random walks, percolation, fractals, and transforms. Additional topics may be included.
581	The Washington Economic Policy Semester provides a seminar which offers a theoretical analysis of contemporary economic problems; presentation of alternative paradigms used to understand economic problems; extensive readings; prepara- tion of papers; and on-site discussions of economic policy decisions. Meetings are generally four to six times per week and may be held at field sites as well as on campus.
582	An investigatin of the biblical, historical, psychological, and sociological roots of liturgy emphasizing the place of ritual in human and Christian personal development
583	An examination of the moral experience, moral character, and moral discernment, as well as an analysis of the principles and procedures used in the Western religious traditions to adjudicate crucial moral issues such as: sexual morality, medical ethics, race relations, and moral judgements about warfare.
584	The study of French pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, and composition with supplementary reading in the language.
585	A study of the organization and structure of modern programming language paradigms with an emphasis on semantic issues. Topics include formal language theory, syntax, semantics, calling protocols, and conventional and abstract data types.
586	An introductory study of Russian phonetics, pronunciation, vocabulary, and grammar. Stress upon the spoken language, with oral drill and dialogue practice.
587	As an academically oriented field experience, this course offers three semester hours credit for a semester-long course that includes an extended study program in selected geographical areas. Lectures, supervised research into aspects of the field study course, and orientation meetings will prepare students for an informed experience.
588	A thorough review of the structures of the Italian language, supplemented by selected readings. The audio-lingual aspect of the language is further developed, and the ability to read with understanding is increased.
589	An advanced Finance course designed to outline theories and techniques for effective financial decision-making and for the assessment of these decisions on performance.  Specifically the course develops tools for effective capital budgeting and financing decision-making, and for firm valuation. Special attention will be paid to developing a comprehensive approach to solving financial problems.
590	This course is a study of the most recent examples of contemporary music. We will experience the creative process in these compositions through listening and analysis, and we shall even do a little composing and performing of our own. These compositions often reflect other artistic trends and utilize scientific fields in the creative process, for example minimalism, postmodernism, mathematics, acoustics, etc. Reading or writing music is not required.
591	Examination of the sociological character of cities, approaches to studying cities and urbanization, and social problems unique to cities. Analysis of urban growth/ decline, global social/political/economic forces on cities, and the variety of urban social environments. Examination of social organization, culture, power, planning and governance and the future of the global city.
592	An intermediate level studio course designed to expand the student's knowledge of drawing techniques and media and to increase the range of creative application.  Students will study still life, landscape, and figure directly and pursue a series of exercises designed to develop their own personal expression.
593	Gateway to Marketing is an introduction to the marketing major with emphasis on careers and hot topics in marketing.  This class provides students with the opportunity to begin to develop the foundational skills (teamwork, leadership, and critical thinking) that are important learning outcomes for the major and the School of Business. Further, it provides students with an introduction to engagement activities (undergraduate research, service, innovation and entrepreneurship) that will help position students for the future.
594	Supply Chain Management is a system approach in managing the entire flow of information, materials, and services from raw material suppliers through supply chain entities to the end customer. Emphasis is placed on supply chain challenges related to providing logistical support for procurement, manufacturing and marketing-distribution. The course will focus on supply chain strategy, logistics information systems, segmental positioning, order management and fulfillment, inventory, forecasting and collaborative planning. In addition, the course will focus on morei operational issues related to transportation, third party logistics, warehousing, materials handling, international logistics, and facility network design. 
595	The reform of western Christianity in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as Europe moved from the medieval to the modern world. Special attention will be paid to sig- nificant figures such as Luther, Calvin, and Ignatius Loyola.
596	This course examines British culture from the postmodern and contemporary era.  By drawing on historic, political, and aesthetic concerns, this class may consider multiple genres of literature, but also emphasize how other arts shape what it means to have a British identity.  Film, visual arts, popular music, and other cultural productions may be studied as primary or secondary sources in order to bolster a broader sense of how to understand the role of Britishness in the contemporary world.  Readings will be taken from a variety of backgrounds and may include authors from the United Kingdom or Anglophone writers who reflect on the sordid legacy of the British Empire.
597	This course addresses the conventions and style of all forms of communications in chemistry: scientific writing, oral presentations, presentation of data in tables and figures.
598	An exploration of the controversial movement that sought to affirm a uniquely Irish culture through reviving Irish myth, encouraging the use of the Irish language, and founding an Irish national theater. Beginning with the catastrophic Potato Famine in the mid-1800s, the course will examine Irish writers' attempts to carve out an independent cultural niche in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Writers to be considered will include W.B. Yeats, Lady Gregory, J.M. Synge, Sean O'Casey, and James Joyce, and issues of the changing roles and representation of Irish women as well as the imaginative construction of an Irish nation will be addressed.
599	This course is intended to enhance a student's command of English vocabulary and expression.  It has been estimated that over 60% of our words derive ultimately from Latin or Greek.  This study will explore the etymology and evolution of English word roots derived from the classical languages.  We will also study the etymology of the basic vocabulary used in the arts, politics, medicine, law and the sciences. The course is also intended to enhance a student's performance in the verbal sections of pre-professional and graduate exams, such as the GRE exam.
600	This course provides advanced hands-on exploration for students assisting in the production of Siena College sporting events and programs aired over ESPN3.  Students will learn sophisticated shooting, editing, writing, interviewing and post-production skills and techniques. Students will perform advanced production tasks in the Athletic Department's mobile production unit. 
601	An intensive study of Ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary with practice in translating simple Greek.
602	This course provides students with a fundamental understanding of how organizations function and the roles managers play within and across organizations. This course introduces students to six management competencies; decision making and planning, innovation and entrepreneurship, teamwork and leadership, communiation, human resource development and process and project management. The course facilitates the development of the conceptual knowledge and applied skills students will need to manage an incresingly diverse workforce and to lead with integrity in a changing global environment.  As a Franciscan Concern/Diversity course, students will learn how effective management practice requires managers to view the world from multiple perspectives, so they may affirm individual rights and appreciate individual differences and differences among groups of people.
603	A critical examination of the ways in which values are expressed in business decisions within the religious and cultural contexts which shape these values. Theories of ethics and social responsibility are examined in relation to issues such as environmental concerns, hiring practices, advertising, consumer demands, and related issues that require self-regulation or government-imposed regulation of corporations.
604	Intensive review of grammar and syntax, supplemented by selected readings.
605	The first half of the introductory course in accounting emphasizes the role of accounting as an information and communication system necessary for economic decisions.  The accounting process, systems and resulting classified financial statements are covered.  Financial accounting concepts and practices relating to topics such as current and long term assets, inventories, current liabilites, equity and long term liabilities are included.
606	An exploration of the theory and technique of current theatre technology, including scenery construction, scene painting, properties, lighting, sound, and costuming. Through discussions and laboratory experience in two campus productions, students will learn the practical application of theatre technology to the aesthetics of design. This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already aquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
607	A survey of European history between roughly 1350 and 1500, with special emphasis on culltural change and on Italy.
608	This course introduces the student to theory and research issues that explore the psychological experiences of women. Topics covered include various conceptual models of women, biological influences on their behavior, theories of female development, gender differences in personality and behavior, and problems of adjustment. It concludes with an examination of alternative lifestyles for women today.
609	This course explores the political, social, cultural geographical, and economic expansion of the United States from the end of the War of 1812 to the sectional crisis over the Kansas territory in 1854. Students will analyze major themes including race, class, gender, immigration, social reform, nationalism, and sectionalism.
610	History of modern China since 1840, with particular attention given to China's response to the West, the disintegration of Imperial China, the development of nationalism, and the rise of Chinese communism.
611	An examination of ethics in business and work. Among the topics to be addressed are: recognizing and analyzing ethical issues in business; promoting ethical behavior in corporations and institutions; the social responsibilities of business; the role of business in a free market economy: ethics in the global economy; the role of the professions in contemporary American society. 
612	Astrophysics is the application of physical principles to astronomical systems. Astrophysicists use their knowledge of physics to explain observations of astronomical phenomena, drawing upon a wide range of subjects in physics, including classical mechanics, quantum and atomic physics, thermodynamics, electromagnetism, chemistry, and nuclear physics, among others.  In this two semester introduction to astrophysics students will learn how to use a variety of physical principles to understand the characteristics and evolution of planets, stars, galaxies and the Universe as a whole.  In this course the thematic focus will be on using stellar physics to understand the constituents (stars, planets, heavy elements) and physical evolution of the cosmos. Among the topics we will explore planetary and stellar atmospheres, stellar structure and evolution, degenerate stars (white dwarfs and neutron stars), star, galaxy, and planet formation, and the origin of primordial elements synthesized moments after the Big Bang).  (Same as PHYS 392)
613	A general survey of Latin American literature from its origins to the contemporary period.
614	An examination of complex challenges and opportunities related to sustainability in a global context. Students will analyze how national, subnational and transnational actors create and actuate norms, principles, strategies and institutions for dealing with global sustainable issues at the food- water-energy nexus.
615	A study of the emergence of the United States as an industrial, urban nation and as a world power.
616	A study of the person and work of Jesus in light of recent historical research and theological reflection. Students will explore a variety of scholars' answers, and formulate answers themselves, to questions such as: What methods are best suited to studying the person and work of Jesus? Who was Jesus? What did he do? What was his main message? With whom did he associate and why? With whom was he in conflict and why? What is the significance of his life, death, and resurrection? How is he related to God? How is related to his followers?
617	An introduction to the principles of financial management. This course emphasizes an understanding of the role of finance within the firm. Topics covered include the elements of financial planning, valuation, cost of capital, and capital budgeting under conditions of certainty and risk.
618	Mathematical techniques applied to business situations. The topics include mathematics of finance, linear equations and functions, graphs of functions, systems of linear equations, inequalities, linear programming, and non-linear models. This course should be the first course taken in quantitative business. A graphics calculator is required: the TI-83 or TI-84 calculator is recommended.
619	An introduction to a wide variety of forms and themes of the visual arts of the past and present.  Students will learn the vocabulary necessary for analyzing and critically evaluating art.  Attendance at a museum or gallery show is required.
620	This is a study of musics of the world. We will also examine the context in which the music may be heard, such as dance, theatre, or religious ceremonies. We will explore relation- ships between music and other art forms, such as calligraphy, painting, and architecture. In other words, we will study the people through their musical practices. Reading or writing music is not required for this class.
621	The course explores security and control issues from an accounting and auditing perspective related to technology as it impacts business applications. Topics may include security and control related to e-commerce, internet, and computer auditing. Students will be exposed to a variety of business applications through case studies and projects. Students need an understanding of basic accounting and financial concepts, as well as an understanding of the design and application of Information Systems and Data Bases.
622	This course will familiarize the student with the people, events and ideas that have inspired the Franciscan Movement. Students will come to understand the the historical development of the Franciscan movement in all its diversity with the context of the High Middle Ages, in comparison with and in contrast to earlier forms of religious life within the Christian tradition. Topics may include the role of Franciscans in the development of western art, in higher education, in politics, in the age of exploration, and in the development of Christian Spirituality over the past 800 years. Students will take a brief look at the contemorary expression of the Franciscan Tradition at Siena College.
623	Students will explore compelling issues of the era such as magic, science, and witchcraft; the New World; the African slave trade; early feminism; and the struggle for religious, political, and social freedom. Readings will be selected from writers such as John Donne, George Herbert, Aemilia Lanyer, John Milton, and Mary Wroth.
624	Organizational behavior is an application of the principles of the behavioral sciences to the functions, needs, and role of management. The specific principles that comprise the foundation of organizational behavior have been provided by the theories, methods, and principles of such diverse disciplines as psychology, sociology, industrial engineering organization theory, and communication systems. Topics covered include: organizational culture, decision making skills, group and integroup behavior and productivity, non-verbal and interpersonal communication skills, participatory management organization development (OD) and change, stresses in managerial work life, quality of work life, improving subordinate performance, and developing effective organizations.
625	An introduction to quantum mechanics, particle physics, and cosmology.  Students will be introduced to the theories that describe Nature at the very smallest and very largest scales.
626	A survey of the political, geographic, social, economic, and intellectual factors that have contributed to the growth of the United States as a great power; from settlement through the Civil War era.
627	A study of the Biology of fishes that includes the evolutionary relationships and diversification of the major groups of fishes, the environment, their habitats, life styles, anatomy, physiology, and behavior.  Fish as a resource and their relationships with man will also be con- sidered. Laboratories will explore a variety of topics in- cluding identification,anatomy, physiology, behavior, and ecology. Fieldwork will be emphasized and time will be spent working in local streams, ponds, and lakes. Field trips to Long Island Sound and the Boston Aquarium are scheduled.
628	This is a one semester introductory course in Topology. The topics covered include: Open and closed sets, topologies on general point sets, connectedness, compactness, continuity, product and quotient topologies, and metric spaces. Applications to other areas in mathematics (principally geometry and analysis) will be explored.
629	History of modern Japan, with principal emphasis on political, economic, intellectual, and social developments since 1853.
630	A study of selected works of Hispanic drama both classical and modern.
631	This course provides a primary focus of developing self-care practices while providing information on the challenges associated with being in the helping professions. Students will expand their self-care toolbox as a way to defend against burnout, compassion fatigue and vicarious trauma
632	This course is an historical survey of American literature from the pre-colonial period through the twenty-first century. Covering a broad range of significant American authors, the course will examine writers within an historical and cultural context.
633	Emphasis placed on vocabulary building and oral proficiency. Little or no grammar review.
634	An introduction to the art and craft of mathematical problem solving. Students interact in a seminar setting, discussing and solving interesting mathematical problems. Oral presentations of problems and solutions are a required part of this course.
635	Early American Literature examines the origins and developments of the American literary traditions from the period of European expansion through the establishment of the early American republic. Students may read authors such as Bradford, Jefferson, Knight, Sedgwick, Cooper, Adams, Rowson, and Brown.
636	This course focuses on wave phenomena and statistical physics. Topics are emphasized that provide a foundation for the study of atomic and quantum physics.
637	Examines assumptions of major theoretical approaches and implications for empirical research in Political Science including concept formation, survey and research design, and data analysis.
638	Through workshop, discussion, observations and viewing and analyzing professional documentaries, students are acquainted with the process of using a camera to produce audio and visual images that record and interpret existing events.  The course will examine artistic methods for the production of documentaries as well as the social and political aspects of documentary film.  Laboratory sessions are devoted to production and postproduction activities. This course is designed for students with no previous experience or those with some experience but no training.
639	This course examines American literature and culture of the Cold War era (1945-1989). The Cold War was a period of American prosperity, but it was also an era of communist witch hunts, racial strife, war protests, persistent gender inequality, and general anxieties about nuclear disaster, individual liberty, and suburban conformity. In this course, we will explore how writers responded to this fraught historical period. We will examine literary works and other cultural texts (such as films, advertisements, theoretical and historical documents) that break down the boundaries between art, popular culture, and politics. Reading selections will vary, but may include works by: John Barth, Don DeLillo, Philip K. Dick, Allen Ginsberg, Joseph Heller, Ken Kersey, Grace Paley, Sylvia Plath, Thomas Pynchon, Ishmael Reed, Adrienne Rich, J.D.Salinger, Anne Sexton, Kurt Vonnegut, Alice Walker, and Richard Yates.
640	A survey of East Asian history with emphasis on the political, economic, social, and cultural development of China, Japan and Korea: since 1600.
641	An introductory study focusing on the achievements in Greek art, including architecture, painting, pottery, and sculpture, as well as advances in science, technology and engineering, from the Minoan-Mycenaean period to the Hellenistic Age. The course will also highlight major archaeological sites, which may include Mycenae, Troy, Knossos, Pylos, Tiryns, Athens, Olympia, Delphi, and Ephesus, among many other possibilities.
642	This course examines the relationship  between mass media and government, with a particular emphasis on American politics. Topics include the First Amendment freedom of the press, the influence of the media on public opinion, the role of the media in covering foreign policy and elections, press-government relations, and the influence of new media on American politics. 
643	A survey of the literature of Republican and Imperial Rome.
644	A survey of the origins and development of the English colonies in North America from the Elizabethan era explorations of the Eastern Atlantic to the French and Indian War.  This course emphasizes cultural exchange and conflict between Europe, Native American, and African peoples in the New World.  Topics will include the economic and religious motivations for colonization, imperial wars, and the economic, political and cultural development of British North America.
645	An academically oriented study of New York State's Dutch Background, this specially designed course offers three semester hours credit for an intense study program in the Netherlands, preceded by orientation lectures, and followed by supervised research into various aspects of the field tour.
646	This course is a practical introduction to the aesthetic principles, creative process and technology used to create multi-camera and single camera television programs in the studio and in the field.  It also introduces the post-production process and video editing using non-linear softwear along with newly emerging digital technology.  This course examines television production methods required for both non- fiction programming such as broadcast news and fiction-based productions.
647	This course examines film as a textual form and attends to the formal and political dynamics of the history of film. By focusing on a director or a theme, students will learn how to analyze film and how to formulate arguments about film informed by cultural studies and film theory. The course will mostly be dovoted to how we understand the textual elements of cinema: narrative, symbolism, characterization, and plot. However, it will also examine how that content is reflected in the technical formal elements of cinema: cinematography, mise en scene, editing, and sound.
648	A foundation course that intoduces the student to an understanding of both the consumer and business marketplaces. The strategies necessary to market goods and services in a domestic and global environment are discussed from the perspective of a variety of organizational structures. This is accomplished through an analysis of external and internal factors that impact the organization and through the development of an understanding of the strategy components collectively referred to as the marketing mix.
649	Medieval Philosophy is the study of foundational ideas discussed by thinkers such as Augustine, Anselm, Aquinas, and Bonaventure. Also included are a look at Islamic and Jewish philosophers who took the ideas of Aristotle and used them to understand God, humans, and the world.
650	In this course students will learn marketing concepts, models, analysis tools, and how to apply them for effective managerial decision making. Students will learn how to conduct a marketing analysis and to formulate, implement, and evaluate marketing strategies in an uncertain environment.  The class teaches students to identify and evaluate the ethical implications of decisions, and to incorporate ethical reasoning into the decision making process. Topics include identifying marketing opportunities, selecting customer targets, effectively positioning products and services, and implementing marketing mix programs.
651	This course explores the knowledge and skills necessary for effectual interpersonal communication, as they relate to working effectively with others in a therapeutic health care relationship. Emphasis is placed on self-awareness, skill development exercises and the roles of diversity and culture in shaping the communication process. Contemporary topics in health care communication are integrated through- out, such as health literacy and use of technology-mediated communication. Concepts and techniques taught will be demon- strated and practiced in class and applied though assign- ments. This course covers content often found in medical school communication training.
652	This course provides a general introduction to philosophical questions concerning law. Among these questions are: Why does law exist? Can laws be broken morally? Why should any- one obey laws? What kinds of laws are there and how do they differ from rules and regulations? What makes punishing criminals right? These issues will be examined through a variety of writings from great historical figures like Plato Aquinas, Locke, and Mill, and contemporaries like Hart and Dworkin.
653	Health economics examines the economic forces which shape the delivery of health care services and the public health environment in which we conduct our everyday lives. The course also examines the health impacts and costs of alternative policy choices.
654	The acquisition and development of language is examined as the foundation of literacy. Three populations are studied: native English speakers with intact abilities and with impairments; speakers whose dominant language is not English; and speakers of variants of English. Children and early adolescents are viewed as applying cognitive strategies actively in processing spoken language and in deriving meaning from print. Topics include environmental influences on language and literacy, discourse theory, pragmatics, participation structure, literacy at home and in school, use of writing and of literature to enhance learning, and the impact of technology on literacy. A twenty-hour field experience is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For those pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12) in a high needs school.
655	This course examines English language literature and culture from the late eighteenth to early nineteenth centuries, and allows students to explore themes related to this time of revolutionary change and political and social upheaval. Bracketed by the end of the Enlightenment, as well as the French Revolution, and the start of the Victorian Era, the Romantic period witnessed the emergence of new literary approaches that emphasized nature, the individual, and the imagination. Works by authors such as Austen, Baillie, Blake, Byron, Coleridge, Keats, the Shelleys, and Wordsworth may be included.
656	A study of options, futures, convertibles, warrants and other innovative derivatives and swap-like securities. Various trading and hedging strategies, option valuation models, and general market structures will also be covered in this course. This course requires oral and written presentations of computer enhanced research projects.
657	In this course, methods to identify, analyze, and solve real-world environmental problems are introduced. Qualitative and quantitative interdisciplinary research tools are used to address a wide variety of environmental issues. Emphasis is placed on basic tools for environmental modeling, statistical analysis, scientific writing and the graphical presentation of data. Students will evaluate current environmental literature, develop practical research skills, and formulate approaches to scholarly research. Each student will complete an environmental research project and prepare a scholarly paper.
658	This course serves as an introduction to the basic principles of Astronomy. The course is taught more technical level than , and is intended for science majors. Topics include the history of Astronomy, the Solar System, stars, galaxies, the structure and evolution of the Universe, and the origin and evolution of life.  Emphasis is placed on the quantitative and qualitative description of astronomical objects, the methods of scientific deduction, and the implications of astronomical knowledge. Opportunities for field and laboratory work will be provided.
659	A general examination of the social, political, economic and environmental developments of the indigenous African states including their response to Eastern and Western contacts from pre-history to 1875.
660	By expanding the student's understanding of the financial system to include an international perspective, this course introduces the student to the role of inter- national considerations within the development of corporate policy. This course examines the determination of exchange rates and operation of exchange markets. The application of these ideas will be extended to the firm's management of foreign exchange exposure, cash management, and capital budgeting. Multinational banking and political risk management will also be studied.
661	An examination of fundamental questions about the nature and significance of religion.  Central issues to be studied are: religion as a reasonable form of life; religious skepticism; pluralism in religion; arguments for the existence of God; the impact of science on religious belief; the place of ritual and symbolism in human life; and religious language. Traditional and contemporary texts will be read.
662	This course will guide students to deepen their understanding of stress and personal and professional stressors while also providing information and introducing strategies to help manage stress. Nature will be explored as a vital element to human existence, with health benefits that include decreasing stress, and increasing mental, emotional, physical and spiritual well-being. Students will develop their understanding of their relationship with and responsibilities to Earth
663	It has often been noted that the Western tradition stands upon two great pillars: the Greco-Roman and the Judeo- Christian traditions. This course will give the student a broad introduction into the culture and civilization of the Roman people and how they still influence us. Within the course students will study the broad lines of Roman history, the major literary figures and their works, the principal ideas and institutions that informed Roman society, the great achievements in art and architecture, Roman religious practice, and the ways in which the ancient Romans live on into the present day and why they still command our attention.
664	This course consists of selected case studies to be presented in class by student teams. The objective is to encourage the students to develop the ability to identify problems, and through applying the tools of finance, evaluate alternatives and arrive at viable solutions to the problems in each case.
665	Alexander succeeded to the throne of Macedonia (Greece) at the age of twenty.  He quickly led his united Greek forces eastward and within twelve years his empire stretched from Greece in the west to India in the east.  Today, Alexander the Great is recognized by military experts as having been one of the most gifted military strategists in history.  First, close attention will be paid to Alexander the Great's military career but we shall also examine Alexander the man; his character, motives, and philosophical goals.  Second, his early death in 323 BCE marked the birth of the Hellenistic Age, an age that profoundly influenced the history of the western world through its contact with the Roman empire. We shall devote approximately half the course to the study of the achievements of the Hellenistic Age, especially the Hellenistic Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt, whose last ruler was Cleopatra VII. A variety of resources will be used including primary and secondary sources, together with slide presentations. 
666	A study of humankind, its primate background, evolution, and earliest appearance.  The meaning of culture, its growth and development with a cross-cultural investigation of family type, kinship organization, life cycle, subsistence pattern, human ecology, and cultural change will be pursued.
667	An introduction to the statistical principles and methods most commonly used by biologists. Topics will include probability, inference, hypothesis testing, regression and multiple regression, general linear models, parametric and non-parametric tests, permutation, simulation, and bootstrapping. Laboratories will permit hands-on application of concepts from lecture to real biological data sets, building the programming skills needed to use modern statistical software.
668	The course will discuss what constitutes a fraud, how frauds can be committed, how frauds can be uncovered, and some actions accountants and business executives can take to minimize frauds occurring in their organizations.  This course meets the Siena College definition of Franciscan Concern: Diversity by considering matters of race, gender and culture, within the context of the accounting firm being a microcosm of society.
669	This course provides a comprehensive review of the accounting process, a study of the conceptual basis of accounting, and a review of the preparation and understanding of classified financial statements. The course will focus on the study of contemporary accounting theory and the application of generally accepted accounting principles to various specific topics and financial statement items.
670	The course will involve a critical evaluation of the ethical implications for business and adult decisions. Individual as well as organizational consequences will be explored by examining a variety of cases and real- life situations.
671	The major focus of this course will be on the nature, needs, and characteristics of the adolescent learner, as well as the philosophy, curriculum, and pedagogy (including methods and materials) appropriate for middle-level education in New York State. This course will address diverse instructional strategies, including interdisciplinary teaching, teaming, and cooperative learning. Successful middle-level educational programs, which focus on and promote both the intellectual and personal development of the early adolescent, will be examined. A twenty-hour field experience is required at the middle school or junior high school level (transportation is the responsibility of each student).
672	An advanced marketing course designed to provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of consumer behavior, with emphasis on the consumer in the marketplace, consumers as individuals, consumers as decision makers, and consumers as influenced by culture and subculture. A critical examination of consumer behavior theories and research will be undertaken. Further emphasis will be placed on understanding the application of consumer behavior concepts in a competitive, dynamic, and global business environment.
673	Why should we conserve biological diversity? An informed answer requires a basic understanding of the diversity of living organisms and the processes affecting this diversity. This class explores the classification of living organisms, their intrinsic value, and strategies for their conservation Students will be asked to make connections between unsustainable human activities and species loss through critical discourse and collaborative projects that apply principles of modern conservation biology.
674	This course builds on the knowledge base contained in previous courses taken by actuarial students. The goal is to reinforce understanding of the fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows as a basis for future use. Students will review basic financial instruments and expand their knowledge base to more modern financial analysis using yield curves, spot rates and immunization. Finally, students will be introduced to the concept of risk management and understand how principles such as derivatives, forwards, futures, short and long positions, call and put options, spreads, collars, hedging, arbitrage, and swaps affect a firm's risk.
675	This course aims to provide students with an introduction to the discipline and methodologies of history through the study of the relationship of the West to non-Western societies in the contemporary world. Attention is focused on understanding the unique events and trends of the 20th century and their political, social, economic, literary and artistic antecedents in the previous century.
676	A development of the theory of hypothesis testing. Probability theory, including discrete and continuous random variables is studied. Some simple nonparametric tests are developed, and hypothesis tests based on the normal, the Student's t, and the chi-square distributions are studied.
677	This course will compare and contrast beliefs, practices, and legal/ethical issues related to life-threatening and terminal illness, the dying process, and rituals/customs related to funerals and grief from historical, religious/ spiritual, and cultural perspectives. Personal characteristics and social factors that influence the diverse individual and societal reactions to death- related and non-death loss events will also be examined. Since digital and social media are changing how our society deals with these thanatology related issues, the ways thanatechnology is being used across the lifespan by those who are ill, dying, and grieving will be explored. Potential benefits, risks, and ethical dilemmas regarding the availability of these resources will be discussed. Field trips will provide opportunities to learn about the process of planning a funeral and options for the disposition of human remains (burial vs. cremation) as well as how museums (e.g. the NYS Museum - World Trade Center exhibit) server as healing spaces to cope with tragedy. The presence of thanatology-related issues in popular culture will also be explored.
678	The Siena College Chorus explores choral music of a wide variety of historical eras and cultures through discussion and performance. All are welcome; there are no prerequisites.
679	The course introduces students to fundamental components of service as an officer in the United States Army. These initial lessons are the building blocks of progressive lessons in values, fitness, leadership, and officership. Students will learn how the personal devlelopment of life skills such as cultural understanding, goal setting, time management, mental/physical resiliency and stress management relate to leadership, officership, and the Army profession. The focus is  on developing basic knowledge and comprehension of Army leadership attributes and cire keader cinoetebcues while gaining an understanding of the ROTC program, its purpose in the Army, and its advantages for the student.
680	This course is an introduction to the major themes, debates and concepts that characterize the history of Modern Britain and the British Empire. This course surveys the scope of the British overseas expansion at its height in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. It examines the effects of the Empire on Britains colonies and on Britain domestically. Finally, the course examines the process of decolonization and the legacy of the British Empire up to the present day.
681	The functions of organ systems of invertebrates and vertebrates will be covered with emphasis on the interdepen- dent relationships of organ systems and their regulatory mechanisms. Topics covered in lecture and laboratory are the nervous, muscular, circulatory, respiratory and excretory systems, as well as principles of environmental physiology including discussion of ionic, osmotic, and thermal regulation.
682	An introduction to the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, a step by step instruction of the procedures used and an understanding of the printed output. Data preparation for the input of variables, format statements, system and program output, correlation coefficients, data plots, chi- square and distribution tests, analysis of variance and co-variance are some of the subjects studied.
683	A development of Maxwell's electromagnetic field equations and an examination of some of their consequences. Electrostatics, steady currents, and static magnetic fields; dielectric and magnetic materials, time-dependent electric and magnetic fields, and the complete Maxwell theory; energy in the electromagnetic field, Poynting's theorem, electromagnetic waves, and radiation from time-dependent charge and current distributions.
684	This course examines the development of the realistic im- pulse in America from the close of the Civil Are to WWI. Texts will be examined within the context of the American transformation from an agrarian republic to an industrial world power.  Students may read authors such as Twain, James, Chopin, Jewett, Freeman, Crane, Wharton, Zitkala Sa, Sui Sin Far, Harper, Dreiser and Norris
685	Lecture: A review of classical genetics coupled with an introduction to molecular genetics. Topics include Mendel's laws, linkage, complex traits, genetic analysis, bio- chemistry of nucleic acids, gene expression, molecular clon- ing, gene therapy, human genome project and other con- temporary topics. Optional laboratory: Use of the model genetic organisms. Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Arabidopsis thaliana, to demonstrate the power of genetic research. Students will use techniques of classical and molecular genetics and characterize mutants.
686	An historical and systematic examination of key elements of the Catholic tradition, e.g., tradition, sacrament, ministry, papacy, and spirituality. Contemporary issues such as the relationship between Catholicism and politics and the dialogue between Catholicism and world religions will also be explored.
687	An introduction to French writers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Included are examples of short story, poetry, and drama.
688	An analytical approach to the economic problems of the developing countries. The course includes a discussion of the theories of economic growth and development, including domestic and international issues. This material is augmented by the use of empirical studies of the developmental process.
689	This course introduces the student to French literature through the medium of one of its most important genres. With an important emphasis on oral work on the part of the student, the course will be conducted in French.
690	Problems of business operating in a competitive economic systems are confronted with governmental regulation at all levels. Particular attention is paid to federal legislation. Current legislation on consumer protection anti-trust, anti- merger, equal employment, OSHA, and environmental protection is analyzed.
691	(1500-1820) examines the parallels between the origins and developments of the American Literary traditions and the new techniques in cartography, the art and science of map and chart making, both which reflected the period of European expansion through the establishment of the Early American Republic.
692	A study of music designed to develop the student's appreciation and knowledge of music as an expression of human culture to the Romantic Period.
693	Political, social, and economic evolution of the German nation from the Vienna settlement to the present.
694	Nearly every legitimate political authority and virtually every private citizan affirms the virtue of human rights. Since the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 'human rights talk has proliferated: unfortunately, the need for such talk and action has also proliferated.  In this course we look at the history and current practices of human rights from multiple perspectives.  The main theoretical questions we will address are: Are human rights simply Western, or can they be translated into non-Western contexts? How flexible are human rights claims, i.e. to address poverty or gendered violence?  Is there a human right to security?  Who counts as human entitled to human rights protections?  What is the connection between human rights, democracy and freedom? To address these questions we will read key thinkers in these debates.
695	An intensive study of Latin grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on learning to read simple Latin. This is the first course for students offering less than two entrance units in Latin.
696	A study of the principles of Federal income taxation primarily focused on taxation of individuals. The course includes an introduction to tax research. Reference will be made to state tax laws to corporate taxation.
697	The course has four key objectives: First, to give students an overview of the intellectual heritage of public adminis- tration and decision making theory, federalism, bureaucratic power, administrative ethics and reforms.  Second, to make students familiar with the public policy process, particu- larly with policy implementation.  Third, to convey the basic tools and knowledge of the profession, especially budgeting, personnel, management and leadership.  Finally, to familiarize students with current and possible future debates within public administration, including privatization, devolution, democratizing decision making and the global economy.
698	A survey of contemporary writings in the biological sciences designed to acquaint students with recent advances in the field and with the progression of biological thought.
699	A discussion of the basic properties of the set of integers. Prime numbers and the Euclidean Algorithm. Number- theoretic functions, especially the Euler phi-function. Linear congruences and their applications to the solution of Diophantine Equations. Exponents and primitive roots. Quadratic residues and the Law of Quadratic Reciprocity.
700	The student is introduced to the functions and competencies within project management.  The course focuses on providing students with a solid understanding of the competencies and phases of managing projects as well as the key challenges that organizations and leaders face in successfully managing projects.  Topics include project integration, project scope management, time and cost management, quality management, human resource planning, risk management, communications, change management and procurement management.
701	A foundational studio course exploring two-dimensional design problems through a controlled sequence of exercises in drawing, abstract black and white composition, and basic color theory and its application to design. Emphasis is placed upon developing a student's personal appreciation and creative expression rather than professional skill.
702	An introductory course discussing (multivariable) calculus basic probability, and decision theory with a focus on business applications.  Topics include several variable function theory, partial differentiation, optimization problems and LaGrange multipliers, Taylor polynomials, infinite series.  Basic probability and its application to payoffs and losses, utility, decision trees and sensitivity analysis.  Bayesian analysis, inference and decision making.
703	A study of thermal phenomena from a macroscopic point of view, including the development and applications of the first two laws of thermodynamics, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, and equilibrium phenomena. The concept of distsribution functions is developed. This is followed by a study of classical statistical mechanics and the statistics of Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac.
704	This course introduces mathematical background needed for the core data analysis methods of dimension reduction, data visualization, classification and clustering.  This is not primarily a course in statistics, as it approaches data problems via linear algebraic methods such as Principal Component Analysis (visualization and dimension reduction), Fisher Linear Discriminant Analysis (classification), and K-means (clustering). Case studies will provide an immersive student experience analyzing high-dimensional data
705	In this course there will be applications of first and second order differential equations and linear algebra. The series solutions of the differential equations of Bessel and Legendre are studied in detail. Other topics include Fourier series and expansions as well as other series comprised of orthogonal functions. Applications of these expansions will be discussed as time allows.
706	An intermediate level studio course in which students expand upon the knowledge and skills gained in CREA-200. Students will deepen their understanding of the practice, history and theory of drawing. Students will inquire into the purpose of drawing and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media.  Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media.
707	A survey of German history and culture from the Age of the Revolution to the Weimar Republic.
708	This course is designed to help the professional understand the key role of model based decision in business settings and identify areas that lend themselves to model based decision-making.  Students will learn how to turn business problems into mathematical and spreadsheet models and use those models in order to make better business decisions.  The course focuses on optimization models and simulations.  Application areas may be drawn from problems in finance, marketing, accounting and operations.  Topics will include current and relevant modeling in the areas of optimization and simulation and may include Linear and Programming, Simulation and Optimization, Monte Carlo Simulation, Multi-Period Linear Programming and Discrete Simulation. 
709	A hands-on study of database management systems, based on the entity-relationship and relational data models. Topics will include logical and physical database design (including E/R modeling, normalization, memory management, and indexing), transactions/concurrency, query processing/optimization algorithms, and query languages (primarily relational algebra and SQL). Problems such as security and integrity of the data will also be discussed. Additional topics may include recovery, object-relational extensions, semistructured data and languages (e.g. XML/Xquery), application development (e.g. PL/SQL, PHP), or distributed systems.
710	The course will introduce the student to the unique ways in which theatre has reflected American society.  Through class discussion, film, selected readings and attendance at both professional and academic productions, the student will examine the various means through which theatre addresses issues of race, gender, culture and politics in ways that are both entertaining and instructive.  This course is designed for students with no theatre experience as well as those already acquainted with the stage.  A field trip to a professional production is required.
711	A study of the epic narratives of Greece and Rome, including among others, Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Apollonius' Argonautica, Vergil's Aeneid, and Ovid's Metamorphoses.  A variety of interpretive approaches will be used in a close reading of the primary texts.  The course will focus on the development and transformation of the epic tradition throughout the course of antiquity, its shifting focus, themes, values, methods, cultural assumptions, and its legacy to western civilization.
712	A lab-based introduction to problems, problem-solving, and the kinds of problems amenable to spreadsheet solutions. Provides a foundation for analyzing business and decision support problems using spreadsheet technology.  Typical techniques studies may include absolute and relative addressing, macros, and conditionals.  Students will be expected to apply their skills to various business scenarios and cases.
713	The purpose of this course is to introduce the student to the chemical aspects of forensic science as it applies to criminal investigation and laboratory preparation. This course looks at select pieces of instrumentiation and chemistry associated with crimes.  We will look at how the instrumentation is used, what type of evidence it can process, how to read the results and the properties of the chemical evidence. This course will also study the general principles and fundamentals of forensic toxicology, poisons, action, toxicity, postmortem characteristics, samples required for toxicological analysis and methods of collection, methods of preservation and analysis.  Chemical toxicological and pathological characteristics of commonly abused drugs, including the following: ethanol, barbiturates, narcotics, stimulants, and hallucinogens. Details of SAInT Center instrumentation and the methods employed for analysis, such as color test, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, GC-MS, infrared spectroscopy, uv-vis spectrometry, will be a major part of the laboratory portion of the course.
714	A critical evaluation of the impact of interest group politics on the American policy-making process.  The course includes a study of the various theories of the power of interest groups, the formation and development of intererst group organizations and movements and the organizational maintenance of interest groups.  Also, the course examines the roles interest groups play in shaping public attitudes, influencing campaigns and elections and lobbying political institutions and officials.  Students should have a working knowledge of American government.
715	This lecture course will cover in more detail the structural and physical properties of organic molecules and the reactions they undergo. The structure and physical properties of complex organic molecules will be covered, including sources of strain energy and steric hindrance and their effects on chemical reactivity. The properties of various chemical reaction intermediates, such as carbocations, radicals, carbanions and carbenes will be discussed, as will their involvement in chemical reaction mechanisms. More detailed descriptions of the mechanisms of the reactions will be presented, as will the class of pericyclic reactions and the Woodward- Hoffmann rules that govern them. This enhanced vocabulary of organic reactions will then be used to learn the planning of the synthesis of organic molecules.
716	An introduction to and examination of estate planning. Wills, trusts, estates, gift taxes and responsibilities of estate administrators will be analyzed.
717	A survey of the historical and religious development of those churces which belong in the tradition of Eastern Christianity and the contributions which churches of the Eastern tradition make to Christianity in the contemporary world.
718	provide foundation for all upper level mathematics courses. Main topics considered during the first semester: functions, limits, continuity, differentiation, the chain-rule, antiderivatives, the definite integral, Fundamental Theorem of Calculus and trigonometric functions. Applications of all topics are emphasized. Students must purchase an approved graphing calculator prior to begining this course.
719	An introduction to the processes and techniques of social research, including instruction hypothesis formation, measurement, questionare contstruction, sampling, survey research and participant observation. A proposal which demonstrates a student's ability to construct a research design is required.
720	This introductory statistics course will provide an introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics with an emphasis on computation using current statistical software packages.  Note: Requires a laptop. 
721	This course examines representative dramas from Moratin to Benavente.  Plays selected illustrate all the important literary movements of the past century.
722	Lectures covering the general principles of Biology with evolution as the unifying theme. Topics include the scientific method, mechanisms of evolution, genetics, biochemistry, cell structure and function. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphases include developing and testing hypotheses and writing laboratory reports.
723	A basic studio course exploring three-dimensional design problems through a controlled sequence of projects dealing with form in space.  Emphasis is placed upon developing a student's personal appreciation and creative expression rather than professional skill.
724	This course focuses on financial statement analysis and the use of accounting information by organizational decision makers.  Decision makers must understand cost concepts and how they relate to a variety of operational demands. This understanding leads to the ability to analyze profitability and cash flow, as well as interpret the information supplied by various performance measurement systems.  Current concerns of decision makers such as operating in a global environment, sustainability, workforce empowerment, and the impact of analytics and visualization will be discussed.  Topics may change as business issues evolve.
725	This humanities-based course may draw upon material from philosophy, the sciences, literature, religious studies, history and the various arts to encourage broad reflection about our obligations to the environment. One aim is to in- troduce students to the basic ethical views (utilitarian, rights theory, socialist accounts) that inform environmental decision making. Another aim is to examine more recent work specific to the environment, such as essays on deep ecology, the land ethic, environmental racism, and ecofeminism.
726	The materials dealt with in this course are case analyses of international practice problems and how they reflect upon our domestic legal system.
727	Rhetoric is the study and art of persuasion: understanding how texts are consturcted to persuade specific audiences to think or believe a certain way. Speeches and essays are rhetorical texts for sure, but advertisements, films, music, and art can be defined similarly. students will be asked to critique and analyze rhetorical texts that extend beyond written modes of persuasion. The purpose of this course is to help students become familiar with the role of context, audience, and purpose in the creation of a variety of rhetorical texts. No exam.
728	This course looks at a number of books written for non-economists, and expects students to critically analyze their economic content.  The required books are, with a single exception, chosen by the students enrolled in the class.  In addition, students are expected to write and publish newspaper editorials on economic topics of their choosing.  This course is very reading intensive, and emphasizes communication skills.
729	This course examines the role of women in politics in terms of the broad political questions of participation, political socialization, social movements and public policy.
730	This course introduces the student to the field of adulthood using a developmental approach as a systemic framework.  The focus of the courses on issues that involve both change and continuity across early, middle and later years of the adult life cycle.  The interaction of psychological, sociological and biological factors as well as the interaction between individuals and their environment is emphasized.  In order to provide a comprehensive look at behavioral age changes, various theories and models of development and aging are discussed.
731	This course uses a political economy approach to examine economics and economic policymaking from the perspectives of gender, race and class.  Through this course, we challenge dominant narratives of race, class and gender in economic theory and models of economic behavior.  We examine how assumptions pertaining to these constructed categories permeate economic theorizing (about the household, the labor market, work, welfare etc.) and policy-making, systematically reproducing unequal opportunities and outcomes.
732	An introduction to fundamental management issues and information system principles involved in the analysis, design, and implementation of management information systems.  Topics include business information system planning, technology architecture, database design, systems development, decision support systems, internal control, and computer security and disaster planning.
733	This course provides a beginning knowledge and a methodology for analysis of social welfare and social work issues and problems.  Social policies, programs and services designed to address these issues and problems are also presented.  The course introduces the profession of social work and its theoretical approaches including Holistic, Ecological, Systems and Strengths/Capacities perspectives on the human condition.
734	This course introduces students to the fundamentals of epidemiology.  This includes basic principles and methods used in epidemiology such as research design, outcome measures and cause and effect.  In addition, this course examines social interactions and how they affect health. More specifically, why these interactions result in differential health outcomes within a given population. Furthermore, this course addresses those economic and social forces that create these differential health outcomes. 
735	An introduction to accounting information systems and their roles in the accounting environment. Systems covered include manual accounting, computerized accounting and Internet electronic commerce applications. Emphasis is upon developing students' abilities to understand the processing of accounting data and the controls that are necessary to assure accuracy and reliability of the data processed by the accounting system.
736	Maladaptive behaviors are studied from theoretical and research perspectives. Topics include the psychoses, anxiety disorders, personality, social and sexual disturbances, disorders of childhood, organic mental disorders, and substance abuse. Therapeutic interventions and legal issues are also considered.
737	The general physics sequence provides an introduction to those basic concepts of physics that form the foundation of all the natural sciences.  The first course is mainly an introduction to classical mechanics where the fundamental laws of Newtonian mechanics are applied to a variety of simple systems.  Some elementary thermodynamics is also included.  Throughout the course, the conservation laws serve as unifying phyiscal principles.  Mathematics, a powerful tool in the understanding of natural phenomena, assumes its essential role.  Computers are used in the laboratories.
738	This course focuses on the latest marketing communication practices, knwn as integrated marketing communications (IMC), featuring an overview of the major media, including broadcast, print, outdoor, point of purchase, direct mail, Internet, telemarketing, public relations, promotion, and more. The emphasis is on how to analyze and create an IMC program by using the latest value- based marketing concepts and measuring return on communications investment.  Through individual analysis and discussion of case studies, students learn how to apply core marketing principles by using the latest IMC methods and communications tools.
739	This course considers the objectives and strategies of international business in the context of global competition. It equips managers with a comprehensive framework to formulate strategies and influence in the global marketplace in ways that maximize economic, social, and environmental sustainability.  Students will consider and analyze topics such as competitive advantage, country assessment and selection, why firms choose to internationalize, and how the various value chain operations can be internationalized. Considerations of managing international business operations include the role of supranational institutions such as the IMF and WTO and regional cooperation agreements.  Students will study the principles of multinational business management and strategy, explore the fundamental differences among developed and developing countries, and analyze the forces driving international business trends. 
740	Matrix Algebra has a wide application of uses in various business disciplines through applications of classical linear algebra techniques.  The techniques demonstrated in this course will assist students in solving problems including multidimensional linear programming, assignment problems, Markov chains and stochastic processes, Leontif Economic Models and Cryptography.  Calculations will be assisted via the use of R.
741	This course consists of reading selections from representative authors of Classical Greek, for students who have completed elementary Greek.
742	This course is a sociological examination of media communication, production, and text/content. Media institutions and uses are important aspects of the social experience and ways of knowing our histories and social positions in society. This course combines theory and practice. In this course we integrate critical approaches on media as culture and industries with student projects that take on media production in audio, visual, and digital communications technologies. The course examines the often unequal social relations embedded in how we access media, negotiate the meaning behind media messages, interact with media, use media, and dispose of toxic technological hardware. 
743	This course continues the study of algorithm design and implementation with an emphasis on the use and implementation of data structures such as records, stacks, queues, linked lists, trees and graphs. Students will continue development of programming skills using modular and structured programming techniques. 
744	This course surveys historical and contemporary theories of human and animal learning.  The psychological study of learning is traced as it has developed over the past 100 years.  Among the earlier theorists surveyed are Thorndike, Pavlov, Guthrie, Hull, and Tolman.  The more recent theories of Skinner and Bandura are given extended treatment. Current perspectives from cognitive science and neurophy- siology are also reviewed. A general theme of this course is demonstrate the relevance of each learning theory to matters of practical human importance.  This course provides background that is of special relevance to individuals interested in education, child development, counseling, and clinical psychology.
745	Modern Standard Arabic will be studied and utilized as a research tool intended to develop proficiency in reading for comprehension and translation into English through the study of grammar, development of composition exercises, and basic conversation practice. Student focus will be on the study of the religious dimension of Arabic sources to strengthen their use of micro skills and strategies em- ployed in written and basic oral communication, such as describing religious events, expressing ideas, and stating and defending opinion. Offered every two years.
746	The course will cover the principles of gene structure, function, organization and expression in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Some specialized aspects of eukaryotic gene mobility, gene rearrangement, cancer genes and animal virus genetics will be studied. Gene manipulation through recombinant DNA technology and applications of this technology in basic research and industry will be discussed in lecture and illustrated through laboratory exercises involving the isolation, cloning and expression of genes in bacteria and mammalian cells.
747	Applications of Fourier series and expansions to the solution of the classical partial differential equations of mathematical physics and an introduction to complex variables.
748	A study of representative dramatic types designed to increase appreciation of the drama as literature. Attention is paid to the historical development of the genre.
749	This course will examine basic techniques for collecting, interpreting, and analyzing qualitative data. Research strategies like ethnography, narrative analysis, text or discourse analysis, visual analysis, case study, grounded theory, oral/life history, focus groups etc., will be examined. Students will be required to do a project that will be based on qualitative methodology. Students will also address issues of ethical responsibility while conducting qualitative research.
750	An introduction to the social aspects of environmental problems and solutions. It examines the ways in which social institutions and lifestyles lead to environmental deterioration. It also looks at the consequences of environmental decay for human health and well-being. It examines efforts to preserve the natural environment through the Environmental Movement, drives to save particular ecosystems, and changes in thinking about environmental issues.
751	A philosophical study of ethical questions such as, how are we to live?  What kind of people should we become? Typically examines virtue ethics, Kantianism, natural law theory, justice and rights theories, utilitarianism.  Applies theories to contemporary moral and political concerns.
752	This is a performance course in physical and vocal technique for the stage and other performance media. General physical limbering and awareness and the development of a free and natural speaking voice pave the way for extensive exercises for the breath, resonation and vocal articulation as well as methodologies in movement, which include improvisation, group performances and individual movement techniques designed to increase the body's expressiveness. Presentations of scripted material, extracts from dramatic literature or poetry from the periodic onstage portion of this pratical performance course. A field trip to a professional production is required.
753	A study of the taxonomy, morphology, and evolution of the vertebrates. Emphasis will be placed on the nature of evolutionary processes and the resulting modifications in vertebrate morphology and function. The laboratory involves the detailed dissection of representative vertebrates.
754	Collecting accurate and representative field data is essential for many environmental investigations and research projects. In this course, students learn the theory of and techniques for field data collection, analysis and interpretation. Topics include making streamflow measurements, air quality sampling, conducting bird surveys, and using GPS. Students will design and conduct individual and group field projects.
755	The course will provide the student with a comprehensive understanding of the entrpreneurial investment process from both the Entrepreneur's and Investor's perspectives. We will focus on essential methods of financing to advance ideas toward commercial success, as well as the investment evaluation method, and expectations for the wide variety of investment vehicles.  These are vital skills that students, particularly entrepreneurs, will find beneficial in the development ,analysis, and launching of their products.  This course supplements the concepts taught in other Entrepreneurship classes and will lead to greater entrepreneurial success for students.
756	This course provides an overview of investment analysis and decision making with attention to equity analysis and valuation, fixed income securities analysis and valuation, and portfolio management.  Topics include asset allocation, common stock and fixed income investments, ESG issues, and portfolio management.
757	This course is an introduction to the elementary theory of groups and rings, developed axiomatically. Other topics covered are subgroups and closets, normal subgroups, factor groups, homomorphism and isomorphism of groups and rings, fundamental theorems for groups and rings.
758	This course introduces students to methods of historical analysis. Students will learn essential skills that are required for the successful completion of research and writing intensive assignments in other History courses. They will learn how to locate, utilize, and evaluate historical resources as well as follow guidelines for proper citation and attribution in historical writing. This course also examines the discipline of history. Students will learn how historians make history and discuss ethical issues related to historical research, writing and presentation.
759	A study of the aesthetics and mechanics of designing costumes and makeup for the stage.  Students will utilize design and drafting skills developed in class to create costume renderings and patterns as well as makeup plots and palettes based on the interpretation of a theatrical text. This course is designed for students with no theatre ex- perience as well as those already acquainted with the stage. A field trip to a professional production is required.
760	This course explores the interactions between individuals and systems in which they live and work.  Students will learn how the dynamics of communication, decision making, motivation, teamwork, leadership, and culture influence the strategies, structures, processes and interactions that take place in organizations.  The class will focus on generating innovative solutions in dynamic environments, evaluating the impact of actions on stakeholders and the environment, working collaboratively, building leadership capacity throughout organizations, and the importance of personal growth.
761	This course explores the religious and theological dimen- sions of liberation theology. Attention will be focused on the claims about God's activity, human nature, and the Christian life made by the advocates of liberation. Recent texts by Black. feminist, gay, and Latin American theologians will form the context for class discussions.
762	Lecture and laboratory covering fundamental principles of biology including the scientific method, Darwinian theories on evolution and natural selection, cell theory and the genetic basis of evolutionary change. The course concludes with an introduction to cell biology, with an emphasis on organelle structure and function.
763	An historical examination across the major world civilizations from the ancient period to the present of the development of slavery. Focus will be upon the causes and sources of slavery, its impact and consequences upon society, attitudes toward slavery, the life of the slave, and abolition.
764	designed to help students gain confidence and fluency in communicating arguments orally. Introducing students to basic theories and concepts of public speaking, this course explores how verbal and nonverbal communication impacts the rhetorical effectiveness of public speakers. Students will critique, analyze, compose, and perform original persuasive speeches.
765	This course considers the practice of history outside of the formal classroom.  Areas of study may include, but are not limited to, museums, libraries, archives, state and national parks, historical societies, theme parks, publishing, filmmaking, archaeology, and historic preservation.
766	A study of the military history of the U.S. (and necessary European background) from the age of settlement through Vietnam, concentrating on the roots of the armed forces in the society and the impact of change, social, political, and technological on the role and functions of the armed forces of the U.S. 
767	This course introduces students to English literature from Beowulf to Swift.  Students will analyze texts within their historical and cultural contexts, examine the development of several literary genres, and trace the history of the English language, including Old English, Middle English, and Early Modern English periods.
768	In this course students will study a specific genre of fiction: the horror novel. The horror novel as a genre first appeared in English-language literature in the late eighteenth century, and has unfolded in many permutations through the twenty-first century. Readings for this course may span the two hundred plus years of this genre, and/or take a thematic approach. Students will study the distinction between horror and terror and discuss the gothic and the figure of the monster all in conjunction with literary analyses. Works by authors such as Matthew Monk Lewis, Ann Radcliffe, Bram Stoker, Shirley Jackson, Anne Rice, Thomas Harris, and Stephen King may be included in the course. 
769	This course provides students the opportunity to learn the objective process of collecting and analyzing data to aid managerial decision making. Students develop and practice the knowledge and skills necessary to review, apply and conduct organizational research. Major topics include the scientific method, sampling, secondary data gathering, observation and interviews, survey construction and experimental design. Students engage in research projects, conduct and interpret statistical analysis, and communicate their findings. Emphasis will be placed on conducting and using research in an ethical manner.
770	A systematic presentation of the more complex points of French grammar. An application of these grammatical principles will be demonstrated through extensive written exercises, including translations and original compositions.
771	The course focuses on completing the transition from Cadet to lieutenant. As a follow-on to the Ethics instruction in, the course starts with a foundation in the legal aspects of decision making and leadership. The curriculum reinforces previous instruction on the organization of the Army and introduces how the Army organizes for operations from the tactical to the strategic level. This is followed by instrction on administrative and logistical management that will focus on the fundamentals of Soldier and unit level support. At the core of the semester is the Advanced Course Capstone Exercise. This twelve-lesson exercise incorporates learning objectives from the entire military science curriculum. The Capstone Exercise will require students, both individually and collectively, to apply their knowledge to solve problems and confront situations commonly faced by junior officers. Upon completion of the course students will be prepared for the responsibility of being a commissioned officer in the United States Army.
772	This course is an introduction to the study of gender in schools using a cross-cultural perspective.  The course will examine the social and cultural construction of gender, gender roles, and the institutions that influence, and are influenced by, gender.  Central to the course is the investigation of how gender and sexuality exist today, how they have changed over time and place, and their relevance to schools in both industrial and developing societies.  Specific topics include: the cultural construction of gender and personhood; sexuality and the body; the sexual division of labor; kinship; property and the state; politics and reproduction; and the global economy.  We will examine the following school based topics as well: models and outcomes of single sex education, discrimination based on gender, sex, and sexuality, the Similarity hypothesis among others.  To this end, the course will critically examine the interconnections between gender, sexuality, power, inequality, and access to education.
773	In this course students will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army leadership, Officership, Army Values and ethics, personal development, and small unit tactics at the team and squad level. At the conclusion of this course, students will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating and leading a team or squad in the execution of a tactical mission during a classroom PE, a Leadership Lab, or during a Situational Training Exercise (STX) in a field environment.  Successful completion of this course will help prepare students for success at the ROTC Leader Development and Assessment Course (LDAC) during the summer following the junior year, at Fort Lewis, WA. This course includes reading assignments, homework assignments, small group assignments, briefings, case studies, and practical exercises, a mid-term exam, and a final exam. Students will receive systematic and specific feedback on leader attributes values and core leader competencies from instructor and other ROTC cadre and MSL IV Cadets who will evaluate students using the ROTC Leader Development Program (LDP) model. The course closes with instruction in small unit battle drills to facilitate practical application and further leader development during labs and Situational Training Exercises (STX). 
774	This course is designed to develop the concepts within four themes of the individual, health, nursing, and healthcare environment.  This course will introduce the concepts of:  cellular regulation, immunity, inflammation, self, sensory perception, addiction and development.  This course will continue to build upon the concepts of:  acid - base, comfort, digestion, elimination, fluid and electrolytes, metabolism, infection, stress and coping, oxygenation, perfusion, cognition, and mood and affect.  Upon completion, students will be able to demonstrate the knowledge, and skills necessary to provide safe, quality, compassionate and individualized care to promote optimal level of functioning of the patient with a compromised health status. 
775	The course builds upon the fundamentals by focusing on leadership theory and decision making. Life skills lessions in the semester include: problem solving, critical thinking, leadership theory, fellowership, group interaction, goal setting, and feedback mechanisms. Upon completion, students should be prepared to advance to more complex leadership instruction concerning the dynamics of organizations.
776	A beginning studio course in the problems of composition, value structure, color mixing, and various painting techniques with oils or other media.  Students use drawing and painting in the study of nature and still life.
777	An introduction to visual-gestural language.  Contains the manuel alphabet, basic numbers, sign vocabulary, aspects of deaf culture and history, and basic conversational skills with American Sign Language.
778	TESOL is designed to equip pre-service teachers with the theoretical background and strategies for successfully teaching English to those who speak languages other than English in their homes. Additionally, TESOL will give students a brief introduction to current New York State ESOL Standards.  Through in-depth readings, classroom discussions, and presentations, students will begin to master the body of knowledge relevant to teaching English Language Learners (ELLs) in New York State. A field experience component including observation of experienced ESOL educators and developing, planning, and teaching lessons to recent newcomers to the United States will help students develop successful classroom strategies and practices. To help facilitate community in ELL classrooms, as well as to promote deeper appreciation for human diversity, this course also includes an in-depth look at the US refugee experience, particularly as it relates to English Language education and cultural understanding. Students will participate in a Cross-Cultural Solidarity Experience (CCSE) to include film, readings, guest lectures, and a field experience in inner- city classrooms with high refugee student populations. Thus, they will both instruct and learn from refugees as well as experts in the field of refugee resettlement.
779	This academically oriented course will be taught in English and consists of coursework in English followed by an intensive travel study component in a selected French-speaking country. Orientation meetings, research, lectures and discussions will prepare students for an informed field experience. Upon return, students present a project/research paper and portfolio based on their cultural, historical, socio-economic knowledge acquired in the class and abroad.
780	A study of the molecular organization of cells as it relates to function. The plasma membrane, the various membranous organelles, the nucleus, and the cytoskeleton are correlated to membrane transport, respiration, photosynthesis, cell growth and division, cell communication, basic genetic mechanisms, and cell motility. The labs are correlated to the lecture topics and are designed to introduce students to the techniques and equipment used in modern cell and molecular biology research.
781	This course will give the prospective teacher sustained experience in the high school classroom.  In addition to teaching, the student is expected to assume other pro- fessional responsibilities that are assigned to him/her by the cooperating teacher and/or principal.  It is expected that student teachers will gradually add teaching responsibilities and will assume a full teaching load.  The student will return to the College for scheduled classes or seminars with the College staff.  Note: All students will be personally responsible for transportation arrangements.
782	Managing effectively in a constantly changing business environment is an essential requirement for business success. This applies to all businesses, including food retailers. Increasingly, food retailers are being challenged to develop strategic plans that will guide their businesses to success and profitability.  The objective of the course will be to familiarize students with the global retail industry at all levels and in all segments- then take a deeper focus in the application of these principles to food retailing and marketing.  Basics of food distribution, wholesaling and retailing, both on the retail and foodservice sides of the business, will be covered.  The course will also cover the critical issues affecting the industry, including the decline of food at home, the growth of foodservice, and the food-away-from-home market, and the impact of consolidation. Category management will be an area of emphasis in this course.  Students will focus on retailing and purchasing data to analyze groups of products purchased by a business organization or sold by a retailer, building competency in the art and science of category management.
783	Student Investment Fund.  This course is designed around the management of the Bjorklund fund (Siena's Student Managed fund). Students gain practical investments experience using advanced valuations and research techniques to (1) allocate across equity classes and (2) select securities for the Bjorklund portfolio, subject to the fund's investment policies and guidelines.  The course may be repeated one time for full credit.  The course is offered each semester during market hours and takes place in the William R. Raub '85 Market Trading Room.
784	This course is an introduction to digital technology with the goal of laying a technical foundation upon which societal, professional, and personal issues related to computing technology can be understood and evaluated. Topics include hardware, software, operating systems and file management, data communications, security, digital representation, and networking. This course includes hands-on use of common business software tools emphasizing spreadsheet skills.
785	The principles and objectives of cost accounting, production control, and inventory control as they relate to the management decision making and control processes within the firm.
786	This course examines the treatment of sexuality in significant British and American literature.  Readings include fiction, drama, and poetry that centers upon issues of sexuality such as censorship and freedom of expression, religion and sexuality, formations of heterosexuality and homosexuality, power and desire, social regulation of sexual expression, sexual violence, and AIDS.  Authors may include: D.H. Lawrence, Jean Rhys, Margaret Atwood, Alice Walker, Peter Shaffer, Harvey Fierstein, James Baldwin, and others.
787	This course will examine the evolution of electronic commerce from a global strategic marketing perspective. Specific emphasis will be placed on the investigation of a complex general purpose technology framework in the context of the unique characteristics of both business to consumer and business to business markets. The corresponding impacts on the elements of the marketing mix will be examined through an application and analysis of the specific electronic marketing activities which have emerged from the technologies of digitization, networking and i individualization.
788	An introductory level studio course covering the practice history and theory of two-dimensional design. Problems related to basic color theory, abstraction, and the organization of space will be explored. Students will study the Elements of Art and Design, and their use throughout the history of visual art and in contemporary visual material.
789	This course will have an informational discussion of the role chemistry plays in the paper industry. Topics will include the chemistry of how paper is made, what gives it its strength, and what makes it recyclable. We will then move on to the topic of greening up of the environment as it pertains to paper production; the ecological, social, and engineering aspects of paper production and recycling, as well as the act of making your own paper from readily available sources (the students will get to do this in class). Continuing the discussion of the use of paper as a medium, we will focus on the use of paper as an artistic medium. Whether it is a certain choice of canvas for painting or production of tissue paper for flower-making, we will discuss paper's various uses in the art world from a scientific basis. We will conclude by using our knowledge of the science and philosophy of paper and papermaking to discuss, touch, and use various types of paper to do origami projects. The seven axioms of geometrical origami will start the student's orientation into the world of origami, showing them how to fold and manipulate paper. We will discuss the origins of origami, from ancient Japanese toys through the Yoshizawa era. We will also get to discuss and possibly use advanced origami techniques that utilize sizing solutions to help the paper conform to various shapes (a practice called wet-folding).
790	Students will apply basic physics principles to analysis of systems experiencing some combination of forces and torques, with an eye toward engineering applications. Topics covered are statics of particles and rigid bodies, equilibrium, center of gravity, friction, analysis of structures, and moments of inertia.
791	This course familiarizes students with basic principles of psychological research through lecture and laboratory experience. Drawing examples from various areas of psychology the course trains students to design and conduct experiments, to evaluate the internal and external validity of studies, and to analyze and interpret data in the context of relevant research literature. Students gain familiarity with technical sources in psychology. The social and ethical aspects of psychological research are also examined. The course features practice regarding the standard elements of format and style used to report the results of psychological investigations.
792	This course offers an overview of the art of Europe from the beginnings of Christianity to the Renaissance, a span of over thirteen centuries of dynamic cultural change. In the predominantly illiterate Medieval cultures, visual art was used to establish and communicate the evolving religious and political values. Students will study the works of art and architecture for which the Middle Ages is justly renowned: illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and architecture.
793	Political economy is the study of economic systems, institutions, and outcomes from the perspective of who gains and who loses. Conflict over the distribution of these gains and losses, and the use of power to obtain a desired economic outcome will be the focal points of much of our analysis. As such, the methodology used in this course will differ substantially from that used by mainstream economics, which focuses primarily on efficiency and growth and ignores different concepts of economic justice and the role of distribution and power in affecting economic outcomes. To facilitate this approach, this course takes a critical look at American capitalism from contrasting theoretical perspectives, where the interaction of political, social, and cultural forces is brought to bear on economic interactions. This will allow us to develop a broader and more sophisticated perspective on how the American economy actually works, why it doesn't always work, who it works for and against, and why it changes over time.
794	This course taught in Spanish will focus on popular cultural production from Latin America, Spain and the Spanish-speaking communities in the United States and deal with questions of diversity and identity. Students will study and reflect upon the differences between contemporary high culture and popular culture utilizing various methodologies.  Popular cultural material or media and genres may include magazines, newspapers, television, telenovelas, radio, commercials, blogs, performance, comics, graphic novels, political cartoons, film, street art, music, food, etc.  In addition, students will become aware of the historical and social contexts in which popular culture has manifested and has become part of the global exchange and incorporate some of the ideas of important critical thinkers.
795	Laboratory that addresses the application and theory of various analytical methods including gravimetric, electro- chemical, and spectrophotometric analysis, chromatography and statistical treatment of data and error analysis.
796	An advanced studio course exploring traditional photographic concerns in the digital format.  Advanced techniques of camera, Photoshop and lighting equipment will be addressed.  Students will be exposed to work of past and contemporary artists from diverse backgrounds. A student must provide a DSLR camera.
797	An introductory level studio course covering the practice, history, and theory of drawing.  Students will use a variety of media and techniques to study still-life, landscape, and the human form. Students will inquire into the purpose of drawing and analyse the historical and contemporary uses of the media. Emphasis will be placed on the creative application of the media.
798	A study of the principles and the applications used in operations management. The topics covered include operations strategy, managing for quality, forecasting, project management, supply chain management, and inventory management.
799	A rigorous exploration of both the theory and practice of acting for the stage, focusing on textual analysis and its intergration into the rehearsal process, improvisation and its contribution to role preparation, contemporary methods of actor training, audition techniques, and acting in non- linear or non-traditional roles.  Students will prepare scenes and audition monologues as an integral part of the course of instruction.  This course is designed for students with prior on-stage experience and training in acting.  A field trip to a professional production is required. 
800	This course introduces the student to environmental policy processes and issues from economic, management, political science and sociological perspectives. It presents various methods for evaluating environmental quality and remedies; it looks at the various actors (federal/state/ local governments, communities, grassroots organizaions, etc.) involved in environmental decision-making; and it examines the challenges of implementing environmental policy.
801	An examination of religious thought--thoelogy and ethics--in the Western traditions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Using primary texts, particular attention will be given to an exploration of ways religious individuals and communities understand the divine, human experience, and the world.
802	Advanced study of the language through intensive practice of oral and written Spanish.  Students will increase fluency in spoken Spanish through active work on vocabulary and pronun- ciation, and further refine writing skills through writing and editing compositions.
803	Examination of the idea of nature in historical and contem- porary perspective, including theories of humanity's place in and transformation of the natural world. Some points of emphasis are the legacy of ancient cosmology, the develop- ment of the scientific view of nature, modern technology, and current ecological theory.
804	This course introduces students to the content and methodologies of American Studies through a consideration of the American Dream.  Its focus is the complex relationship between people, land, and built environments, from the Puritan village to the California dream.
805	The purpose of this course is to analyze the Western Tradition as it evolved from the Greeks to the Italian Renaissance; to understand and appreciate non-Western civilizations and their encounters with the West; to examine the human condition over time, both the role of the powerful and the powerless.
806	A sociological analysis of contemporary social movements with particular emphasis on grass-roots civic movements and their role in social change. An exmination of current empirical and theoretical issues in the study of social movements and the political, organizational, cultural, economic, and other factors that shape emergence, development, and participation in social movements. An intersectional approach including gender, sexuality, social class, and race/ethnicity will provide a central lens for topics covered. 
807	An examination of bases, advantages and problems of international trade from the perspective of classical, neo- classical and modern theories. Key topics include determinants of the gains from trade, changes in income dis- tribution resulting from trade, the rationale and consequences of commercial policies (e.g.tariffs, quotas and subsidies) and industrial policies designed to enhance the trade competitiveness of trading economies. Emphasis is placed on the consequences of income distribution from trade and, therefore, on questions of equity and efficiency.
808	This course provides students with an in-depth introduction to three prominent counseling theories as well as basic training in some of the tools and techniques that are needed by the entry-level counselor. In light of the demographic makeup of many clinical populations, issues related to working with women and members of minority populations will be heavily emphasized. Because a major goal of the course is to impress students with the importance of grounding counseling practice in sound psychological theory, theoretical issues and practical applications will be interwoven continuously throughout the semester.
809	This course provides an in depth review of essential principles of pathophysiology necessary to anticipate, minimize and treat the complications associated with disease. Pharmacological concepts are examined by system and provide a foundation for understanding the pathophysiology of disease and the rationale for treatment. Pathophysiology focuses on underlying disease process and the body's amazing ability to compensate for these changes.  A conceptual approach is used to illustrate pathophysiological concepts through carefully selected diagnoses.  Through use of case studies, students are actively learning to recognize signs, symptoms and etiology of disease processes and use clinical decision making to connect pathophysiologic concepts to predict functional changes in the body and corresponding pharmacological interventions.
810	The course examines the history, cultural, political, economic forces which inform te politics key Asian states and their relations with the rest of the world.  The course will examine such issues such as economic development, international trade, human rights, political organization, environment, and national secuirty which impact these countries' domestic and foreign policies.
811	The emphasis is on speaking Russian. Colloquial speech patterns will be studied.  To broaden vocabulary, increase reading skills and stimulate classroom discussion, texts ranging from Pushkin to Solzhenitsyn will be used.  Grammar and syntax will be reviewed. 
812	This course constitutes an introduction to French Literature through the medium of the Drama.
813	The course will examine principles, structures, procedures, and decision-making of the American legislative system with a primary emphasis on the U.S. Congress.
814	This course traces the historical development of major schools of thought in criminology (Classical Theory to more recent theories in feminist criminology and postmodern criminology). Emphasis will be placed on student's ability to critically analyze these theories and their underlying assumptions.
815	An examination of the relation between ethics and politics as interpreted by selected, representative religious thinkers.
816	This course covers the concepts of biochemistry. It focuses on the fundamental principles of physical and organic chemistry as it applies to the behavior of biological macromolecules.
817	A general survey of the history and cultures of the island countries of Southeast Asia: Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and Singapore.
818	An examination of certain religious traditions as ways of understanding the development and practice of religion in America. The central focus is on the interaction between religion and American culture. Using a historical approach, the course examines mainstream religious traditions such as Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, as well as non-mainstream religious traditions, such as African American Religion and American Buddhism.
819	This course is a study of quantitative methods and tools for accountants. Topics will include the following: sampling theory and techniques for auditing, probability theory, regression analysis including multivariate regression, linear programming, and Excel as an advanced problem solving tool.
820	An introductory course in physics for students of the life sciences emphasizing kinematics, Newtonian dynamics and energy. Also includes rotational motion, fluids, heat and thermodynamics. Applications to biological systems are discussed.
821	An introductory study focusing on the achievements in Roman art, including architecture, painting, pottery, and sculpture, as well as advances in science, technology, and engineering, from the foundation of Rome to the Late Empire. The course will also highlight major archaeological sites in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East, which may include, the Roman Forum and Colosseum, the Imperial baths, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Hadrian's Wall, Leptis Magna in Libya, Jerash in Jordan, Caesarea in Israel, Baalbek in Lebanon, among many other possibilities. 
822	The course concentrates on leadership, management and ethics. The course focuses students, early in the year, on attaining knowledge and proficiency in several critical areas they will need to operate effectively as Army officers. These areas include: Coordinate Activities with Staffs, Counseling Theory and Practice within the Army Context, Training Management, and Ethics. While proficiency attained in each of these areas will initially be at the apprentice level, students will continue to sharpen these skills as they perform their roles as Cadet officers within the ROTC program and after commisioning. At the end of the course, students should possess the fundamental skills, attributes, and abilities to operate as competent leaders.
823	This lecture course will build on the material covered in , and will cover in more detail the structural and physical properties of organic molecules and the reactions they undergo. Advanced chemical reactions will be covered, including complex skeletal rearrangements, multicomponent reactions, and the impacts of neighboring group participation. This advanced vocabulary of organic reactions will be used to learn the strategies behind the synthesis of complex organic molecules. Concepts of physical organic chemistry, such as reaction kinetics, isotope effects, linear free energy relationships and reaction mechanism determination will be covered. Structural determination using 1 - and 2-D NRS, MS and other techniques will be discussed.
824	This course is designed for students of Hispanic/Latino background who use Spanish at home, but whose dominant and school language is English.  It will concentrate on the particular needs of Latino/Hispanic students, basically addressing literacy in the heritage language and promoting awareness of formal Spanish by exposing students to Spanish from Latin America and Spain in a monolingual environment.  The course will be taught in Spanish emphasizing the development of writing, reading, and oral communicative skills, with particular attention paid to issues of interference of English, vocabulary building, advanced grammar, spelling and reading comprehension.  There is a strong reading component that emphasizes the study of US Hispanic/Latino cultures.
825	This introductory course orients the student to the professional field of education and schooling in the United States. Issues researched and discussed include but are not limited to the following: history and philosophy of education; purpose and role of public education; rights and responsibilities of all educational stakeholders; governance at the local, state, and federal level; and interactions among the school, home, and community that support and enhance student learning. In particular, this course will explore the issue of educational access, emphasizing student diversity within the full range of disabilities and special needs. A ten-hour field experience is required (transportation is the responsibility of each student). For students pursuing Siena's certification sequence, the field experience must be at the secondary level (grades 7-12).
826	This laboratory is required for students enrolled in lectures. Lab work includes experiments designed to illustrate basic biological concepts. Emphases include developing and testing hypotheses and writing laboratory reports.
827	A study of the evolutionary relationships, ecology, physiology, and morphology of the invertebrates. Invertebrates represent 98% of all animals on Earth, making this course an exploration of animal diversity in the broadest sense; it is impossible to fully understand ecological systems or the tree of life without a foundation in invertebrate biology.  The laboratory includes live observations as well as dissection of characteristic members of each phylum and experiments dealing with physiology and behavior.  Some labs will involve field work; weekend field trips and overnight trips are possible.
828	This course will emphasize fundamentals in cyber security and risk, including threats, threat actors, likelihood, impact and controls. This course will cover technical aspects of computer security, but will cover the business side of security oi it is not exclusively for technology majors. Networking, Operating System, and Application concepts will be covered.
829	Birds (Aves) are perhaps the best-studied class of organisms on earth. Indeed, bird research has brought about many of the major advances in ecology, evolution, behavior and conservation. This course provides a comprehensive overview of bird biology, emphasizing the evolutionary origins and early radiation of birds, molecular systematics, behavior, ecology, communication and conservation. The laboratory will combine comparative studies of bird specimens with field investigations. Students will also design and conduct individual research projects. If taught in the spring, the laboratory portion of the course will be conducted as an off-campus field course (10-12 days) involving intensive outdoor research projects at various field stations, and will have a separate field trip fee.
830	Research is the objective process of collecting and analyzing data in order to aid in the marketing and managerial decision making process. Major topics include survey and sampling methodologies, questionnaire construction, observation and experimental methodology plus secondary data gathering. Students engage in research projects, and interpret statistical analysis of output from a computer statistical package.
831	This course serves as an introduction to the theory and practice of political communication. In particular, the course focuses on the role of media in political campaigns, press-government relations, and policymaking, with additional emphasis on methods for analyzing political communication in the contexts of American politics and global affairs.
832	This course provides a systematic analysis of a range of social welfare policies and programs and their impact on individuals, families, groups, organizations and communities Through the use of analytical and experiential learning, emphasis is placed on developing policy practice skills to promote social and economic justice, equality, equity and human rights within the context of political, legislative and community processes.
833	The conceptual basis of the status of the individual and personal rights as discussed and elaborated upon in the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States. The case law approach is used.
834	Further study of grammar, vocabulary, and composition with supplementary readings in the language. Continued study of cultural realities of the Arabic-speaking world.  This course is for students who have completed the equivalent of one semester of college Arabic.
835	The political, social, and economic development of Mexico from colonial times to the present.
836	The course will give hands-on experience using Business Intelligence tools (Tableau and Excel).  Successful businesses typically collect, analyze and utilize information more effectively than their competitors. Emerging technology can capture large volumes of data which can overpower current evaluative methods, interfering with a bussness' ability to analyze and utilize new information.  These challenges are addressed in this course so that learners can become more intelligent information users in their chosen field.
837	This course is designed to familiarize the student with the rationale of test construction and with the more popular intelligence, achievement, aptitude, interest and personality tests used in clinical, industrial and academic settings, Each student is required to complete a research project utilizing test data.
838	This course will provide students with in-depth knowledge of the fundamentals of leading organizational change.  Emphasis will be on strategic- level changes (e.g., strategy change, reorganization, process reengineering) and how to connect to organizational strategy.  Topics include understanding change, how change impacts both individuals and organizations, recognizing ethical dilemmas and identifying the impact of decisions on significant stakeholders, how best to manage the change process, and the primary individual, group, and organizational-level solutions commonly used in organizations to enhance performance.  Emphasis will be placed on understanding how change helps organizational success.
839	The main goal of this course is to improve the students' grammatical knowledge in general, and more specifically, of the Spanish language and its usage.  This will be accomplished through studying the principles of Spanish grammar, writing compositions, reading cultural articles and literary selections in Spanish from Spain and Latin America, and through oral practice.  The course takes into consideration the differences in grammatical and lexical usage in the different countries where Spanish is spoken, thus providing an insight into cultural and linguistic differences. Emphasis is given to improving pronunciation and becoming familiar with linguistic terminology.
840	A study of ecological processes in tropical ecosystems, emphasizing the ecology of tropical rainforests.  The laboratory portion of the course will involve two weeks of intensive field work in a tropical rainforest. 
841	This course will introduce students to the basic concepts and methods associated with the interdisciplinary study of cognition, focusing on research from philosophy, psychology, and computer science. We will focus on representation and computation, learning and problem solving, and the nature of mind, perception, intention, emotion, and consciousness, as well as attempts to model human cognition. Students should come away from the course with a better under- standing of the nature of the mind, human cognition, and artificial intelligence.
842	An introduction to the history and evolution of information processing and an appreciation of an orientation to the digital computer. Included is the study of some of the positive and negative effects of computer usage on social organizations and individuals and the examination of the use and implications of computers in a number of social environ- ments, i.e., government and law, health, education, the humanities, science and engineering, and business.
843	An examination of the works of American composers inspired by the theatre, the unique qualities of theatre music and its contribution to American culture. Areas studied include early ballad operas, black minstrelsy, operas, vaudeville, musical comedy, ballet, and dramatic background music.
844	This course is a survey of the Jewish historic experience, examining the forces that have shaped the ongoing develop- ment of Judaism, its beliefs and practices.  Major issues and trends in modern Jewish life will be explored, including the Holocaust and Zionism. This course is sponsored in part by the Jewish Chautauqua Society.
845	This course delves into the interdisciplinary field of Chemical Ecology through lectures and a week-long trip to Florida during Spring Break. Chemical Ecology is the study of how organisms interact through chemical means. We will explore topics including pheromones, hormones, chemical defenses, sequestration of chemicals, and biosynthetic origins of molecules. Prior to the trip to Florida, you will be provided with the fundamental knowledge base upon which you can build through experiential learning. The trip to Florida will include a 5 day/5 night stay at an independent biological research station (The Archbold Biological Station). Once in Florida, we will explore the world of chemical ecology through the primary literature talks by the professor, guest lectures, and hands-on experience.
846	A survey of the masterpieces of Greek literature in English translations from the 8th century B.C. to the Roman period, which may include selections from the Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, Hesiod's Theogony and Works and Days, the tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides, the histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, the comedies of Aristophanes and Menander, the poetry of Archilochus, Sappho, Pindar, Callimachus, and Theocritus, the works of Plato and Aristotle, the oratory of Demosthenes and Lysias, the works of the New Testament, and the biographies of Plutarch.
847	Methods of computer simulation and its diverse applications are introduced. The course is project-oriented; projects in- clude the motion of massive and charged particles, chaotic systems, and random systems. Methods include the numerical solution of differential equations, fast Fourier transforms, and Monte Carlo techniques.
848	An introduction to assembly language programming using a specific assembly language (for example, ARM, Intel, or MIPS assembly language). Addressing techniques, internal computer components, machine language, subroutines, and parameter passing will be discussed. The course also covers topics in computer architecture including memory systems organization, interfacing and communication, functional organization, and multiprocessing architectures.
849	An introductory course establishing comparative models of political systems focusing upon socio-political organization, political socialization, decision-making and public policy in selected states. 
850	This course provides an advanced exploration of contemporary cases in modern media law.  Through intense scrutiny of contemporary media cases, students gain an enhanced understanding of the intersection of media law and journalistic ethics in the coverage of breaking news stories, and the applicability of libel law and invasion of privacy torts to the dissemination of information through social media and traditional media outlets.  Students will further their writing skills, and develop original legal analyses that reflect critical thinking and require collaboration with classmates on team projects.
851	A survey of communications law including liebel, privacy, confidentiality, and access to information as these issues pertain to broadcast journalists.  This course also covers key ethical issues faced by broadcast journalists including finding facts through a variety of sources, dealing with conflict of interest and avoiding harm.
852	This academic course offers an intensive travel- study experience to a biological field station or region of special biological interest. The travel permits in-depth study of a unique biological system, going beyond what is possible in a classroom or in shorter field trips near the Siena campus. Lectures, supervised research into aspects of the course, and orientation meetings will prepare students for an informed travel experience.
853	A study of Quebec, through its history, geography, arts and literature, political, and social structures. Various social justice concepts, such as human rights, equality, equity, and the status of minorities, will inform our study of historical events as we consider a number of questions. What happens when the colonizer becomes the colonized? What are the consequences when cultural imperialism becomes a guiding principle of government? Do the rights of minority populations outweigh commitment to the common good? Taught in French. 
854	This course is designed to introduce and further develop the concepts within the three domains (themes) of the individual, health and nursing. Emphasis is placed upon the concepts of: acid/base, cognition, comfort, digestion, elimination, fluid and electrolyte balance, health and wellness, infection, metabolism, medication safety, mobility, mood and affect, nutrition, oxygenation, perfusion, sensory, stress, thermoregulation and tissue integrity.  This course will introduce the student to nursing skills and clinical practice within patient care settings while further developing clinical decision making. 
855	This course will be taught with varying subject content in the field of Finance at an intermediate level. Prerequisite course may be required. The particular content will be indicated by subtitle. It may be taken more for credit multiple times for different topics.
856	A study of differential equations using analytic, numerical and graphical techniques. Emphasis is placed on the formula- tion of models that result in a differential equation and the interpretation of solutions. Slope fields, graphs of solutions (analytic and numerical), vector fields and solution curves in the phase plane will be used to gain a better understanding of differential equations. Computer based tools will be used to investigate the behavior of solutions both numerically and graphically.
857	A survey of the origins and development of the American Revolution and the United States from the British imperial crisis of the 1760s through the conclusion of the War of 1812. Topics will include the political, social, and economic causes of the American Revolution, the military course of the War of Independence, and the outcome of the war and revolution on diverse populations.
858	This is an intensive exploration of some great ideas of mathematics. We ask and try to answer questions like: Can we count the real numbers?; What is the fourth dimension?, How can an infinitely long curve exist in a finite space?. This course is a challenging one, suitable for students who have an above average high school record.
859	What makes one argument acceptable and another unacceptable? What makes one inference reasonable and another unreasonable? Philosophers employ a variety of methods for studying argument and inference, and this course will introduce students to some of these methods. Students should come away from the course with a better understanding of the nature of argumentation and our capacity for reason, along with strong skills in critical thinking that can be applied to personal, intellectual, and academic pursuits. 
860	This is the third in a four-part sequence of social work practice courses. It is designed to give the learner an opportunity to under- stand and apply BSW Generalist Practice as it relates to micro (individuals) and mezzo (families) systems. The course emphasizes the Generalist Intervention Model - engagement, assessment/data collection, planning, implementation/inter- vention, evaluation and termination. The course builds on knowledge, values and skills gained from prior social work classes. Emphasis is placed on working with people from diverse backgrounds.
861	This course is a practical examination of reporting for radio and television outlets including cable.  Students practice covering actual news events first for radio and then for television.  They gain actual experience in the field with those skills they learn in the prerequisite course.  Introduction to Broadcast Journalism, including interviewing, developing stories, and broadcast news writing.  Further, students will learn to use a tape recorder and edit audio for their radio reports.  They will also learn to shoot news video and edit video stories for use on the college's cable channel.  Students will be introduced to the concepts of performance for broadcast reporting.
862	This course is designed to introduce students to the theory and practice of interpreting ecological and aesthetic values of the natural world to the visiting public. Emphasis is placed on interpretation of natural and cultural resources and informal education in an outdoor setting. Both individually and in groups, students will plan and present interpretive materials using written, oral, and visual methods of informative and persuasive communication. At least one Saturday field trip will be required.
863	This course introduces students to the concepts and skills necessary for developing and enhancing effective interpersonal communication. Particular emphasis is placed on the interview and the techniques used to engage an individual in the helping process. Students  actively participate in the learning process through class exercises, role-plays, and videopated presentations.
864	This course provides the intellectual foundation upon which the social characteristics and implications of health and health care are understood in the United States and other nations from a global perspective. This foundation is based on an analysis of key social factors and actors including health and illness behavior, the sick role, mental illness, physicians, nurses, alternative practitioners and practices as well as the role of the hospital and medical terminology.
865	The Financial Management course examines how firms create value, manage risk and measure performance. Students will learn how to evaluate financial information and make value-creating decisions and determine how environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors impact firm value.  Topics include financial analysis and planning, risk-return relationships, cash flow, and working capital management as well as investment priorities, capital structure, valuation techniques, and capital budgeting applications.
866	An in-depth study of Chaucer's major work, The Canterbury Tales, along with selections from his other works.  The literature will be discussed in the context of important issues of medieval times: the growing middle class, the position of women, the aftermath of war and plague, religious crisis and reform.  All readings will be in Middle English.
867	The purpose of this one semester undergraduate course is to introduce the student to the use of instrumental chemical techniques to the analyses of physical evidence materials of forensic import. Crime scene evidence gathering techniques will be discussed.  The course includes lectures and has as a critical portion laboratory sessions. At the conclusion of the course the successful student will understand the fundamental use and operation of certain types of chemical instrumentation and their application to forensic analytical problems.  The student will also be able to choose the proper technique to successfully analyze a material and increase his knowledge and understanding of the analytical approach and interpretation of quantitative data. 
868	Astrophysics is the application of physical principles to astronomical systems. Astrophysicists use their knowledge of physics to explain observations of astronomical phenomena, drawing upon a wide range of subjects in physics, including classical mechanics, quantum and atomic physics, themodynamics, electromagnetism, chemistry, and nuclear physics, among others. In this two-semester introduction to astrophysics you will learn how to use a variety of physical principles to understand the characteristics and evolution of planets, stars, galaxies, and the Universe as a whole. In this course the thematic focus will be on gravity, which is the dominant force in many astronomical systems. Among the topics we will explore include planetary and binary star systems, supermassive black holes, spiral and elliptical galaxies, dark matter, gravitational lensing, and the geometry and cosmic expansion history of the Universe. (Same as PHYS 390)
869	This course in Aesthetics explores the nature of art and its relationship to society, truth, and human experience. Questions to be explored include: the meaning and place of art; its role in education; its relation to reality; and the nature of beauty. Examples will be drawn from a variety of artistic media, including painting, sculpture, dance, film, photography, music, literature, drama, architecture, and conceptual art. Thinkers typically considered are Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Schiller, Hegel, Nietzsche, Dewey, Benjamin, Danto, and Cavell.
870	This survey examines the people, ideas, and institutions that have shaped U.S. foreign relations from the World War I to the present. The course takes a broad view of foreign relations to include interstate diplomacy and economic, social, and cultural interactions among individuals, institutions, and non-governmental organizations.
871	An academically oriented study of biblical lands, this specially designed course offers three semester hours credit for an intense two-week study program in the lands of the Bible, preceded by orientation lectures, and followed by supervised research into one aspect of the field tour.
872	An examination of American state and local political systems, emphasizing such topics as federalism and inter- governmental relations, federal grant-in-aid systems, the state gubernatorial, legislative and judicial process, local political systems, and public policies of state and local governments.
873	A study of the life and teachings of Jesus and of the community founded in his name, with special attention to the available historical sources; a literary, historical, and theological examination of the four gospels.
874	This course serves as an introduction to basic science and chemical principles that are encountered in everyday interactions with food and cooking. The influence of food on history will also be examined.
875	Continued study of financial accounting theory and practice in selected areas of accounting such as accounting for partnerships and accounting for complex corporate units and multinational enterprises.
876	An introductory studio course designed to sharpen skills of visual perception, representation, and invention in drawing. Various media and techniques are explored in relation to subjects drawn from nature, including the figure and imagination.
877	The development and transformations of Evangelical Pietism and its impact on American life. Emphasis will be placed on revivalism as the central theme of this tradition in America
878	The course introduces mathematical probability to understand variation and variability.  Methods of enumeration, con- ditional probability, independent events, and Bayes' Theorem are developed in a general environment.  Among the continuous and discrete probability distributions derived and studied are the Bernoulli distribution and distributions based on it, the uniform, exponential, normal, Gamma and Chi Square distributions.  The Central Limit Theorem leads to approximations for discrete distributions.  Chebyshev's Inequality prepares the student for Inferential Statistics.
879	A critical examination of the intersection of social categories based on race, ethnicity, and gender in contemporary societies.  This course will explore the intersection of these categories in regards to wealth, power, and social status.  It also will cover topics such as prejudice, discrimination, and racism in society
880	Classic American Philosophy identifies a movement in which Americans declared their independence from European philosophies. Pragmatism is the most famous school, but there were other developments as well. This course studies some of the key philosophers who contributed to an American philosophical voice. Typical of the philosophers studied: Peirce, James, Dewey, Addams, Santayana, DuBois, Royce, Whitehead, Rorty.
